 {
   "question": "What must be displayed on the name board at the society’s main entrance?"
}
 {"question": "What are the different classes of members defined in the bye-laws?"}
 {"questions": "What are the different classes of members defined in the bye-laws?"}

 What responsibilities do members have in maintaining their flats?
 What rights does an active member have regarding inspection of society documents?

 Can a minor become a member? If yes, under what conditions?

 I. General / Preliminary
What is the classification of a Tenant Co‑Partnership Housing Society under these bye-laws?

What is the procedure for changing the registered address of the society?

What must be displayed on the name board at the society’s main entrance?

II. Membership
What are the different classes of members defined in the bye-laws?

Who is eligible to become an Active Member?

Can a minor become a member? If yes, under what conditions?

What is the procedure for becoming an Associate Member?

What documents must be submitted along with a membership application by a flat purchaser?

What is the definition of a Nominal Member?

What are the restrictions on an Associate Member’s rights?

III. Rights and Liabilities
What rights does an active member have regarding inspection of society documents?

Can a member use their flat for a different purpose than mentioned in the allotment letter?

Under what circumstances can a member be expelled from the society?

What responsibilities do members have in maintaining their flats?

Is sub-letting a flat allowed without informing the society?

What is the maximum penalty that can be imposed on a member for breach of bye-laws in any one financial year?

IV. Charges and Payments
List the types of charges that a society can levy on its members.

How is the sinking fund calculated?

At what rate can the society charge interest on delayed payment of dues?

What is the process if a member defaults on payment of maintenance charges?

V. Funds and Accounts
How is the Reserve Fund of the society constituted?

Under what circumstances can the Reserve Fund be used?

What is the minimum contribution rate for the Repairs and Maintenance Fund?

How should the society invest its surplus funds as per the bye-laws?

What are the registers and account books that every society must maintain?

VI. Meetings & Management
When must the first General Body Meeting be held after registration?

What is the quorum for a General Body Meeting?

List any four matters that can be discussed in an Annual General Body Meeting.

How often must the Managing Committee meet?

What is the procedure for filling a casual vacancy in the Managing Committee?

VII. Redevelopment & Repairs
What steps must the committee take before undertaking redevelopment?

What is the maximum repair expenditure limit that the committee can approve without General Body sanction for societies with more than 51 members?

Which repairs are the society’s responsibility and which are the member’s?

What precautions must be taken regarding child labour in society premises?

Can a society allow installation of solar panels on its terrace by members?

VIII. Transfers & Nomination
What documents are required for transferring shares and flat ownership to a new member?

In case of a member’s death, how is the flat transferred if there is a valid nomination?

What is the procedure if a member dies without making a nomination?

Is the society’s No Objection Certificate mandatory for property transfer?

Can members exchange flats among themselves? If yes, what is the process?

IX. Dispute Resolution
Which types of disputes fall under the jurisdiction of the Registrar?

Which disputes go to the Co‑operative Court?

When should a member approach the Civil Court in society matters?

