MODEL BYE – LAWS OF  
COOPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETY 
(Tenant Co‐Partnership  Housing Society ) 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
2014 
 
  1 
 I.PRELIMINARY   3 
a. The Name of the Society                               bye Law no 1. a  3 
c. The Society is classification                            bye Law no 1. c  3 
a. The registered  address of the Society       bye Law no  2. a  3 
II. INTERPRETATIONS                                BYE LAW NO 3   3 
III. AREA OF OPERATION                          BYE LAW NO 4   6 
IV. OBJECTS   7 
5. The objects of the Society                            bye Law no 5  7 
V. AFFILIATION                                              BYE LAW NO 6   7 
VI.  FUNDS, THEIR UTILISATION  AND INVESTMENT   7 
( A ) Raising of Funds                                                  bye law no 7                                                                      7
( A ) Raising of Funds                                                  bye law no 7                                                                      7 
(B)Share Capital                                                         bye law no 8                                                                          8 
(C) Limit of Liabilities                                                 bye law no 11                                                                          8 
(D) Constitution  of the Reserve Fund                    bye Law no 12  8 
(E) Creation of Other Funds                                     bye law no 13 a. b. c. d.                                         9 
b. Major Repairs Funds                                   bye law no  13 b.  9 
(F) Utilisation  of the Funds by the Society          bye law no 14                                                                         9 
a. Reserve Fund                                                bye law no  14 a  9
a. Reserve Fund                                                bye law no  14 a  9 
b. Repairs and Maintenance  Fund               bye law no  14  b  9 
c. Sinking Fund                                                 bye law no 14 c  9 
(G) Investment  of Funds                                          bye law no 15 10 
VII. MEMBERS,  THEIR RIGHTS,  RESPONSIBILITIES  AND LIABILITIES   10 
( A ) Classes of Members                                           bye law no 16                                                     10 
( B ) Eligibility  for Membership                                 bye law no 17                                                     10 
( C ) Conditions  for Membership                               bye law no 19                                                    11 
( A ) Rights of Member                                                                                                                                      13
( A ) Rights of Member                                                                                                                                      13 
Active Member                                                       bye law no 22 c  13 
( B ) Getting Copy of the Bye‐laws, Audit Report &                                                                                       13 
Inspection  of Books & Records and getting copies thereof        bye law no 23 a. b.                   13 
( C ) Occupation  of Flats                                              bye law  no: 24                                                  14 
( D ) Restrictions  on Rights of Associate  and Nominal Members     bye law no 25                 14 
( E ) Resignation  of Membership                                bye law no 27                                                     14
( E ) Resignation  of Membership                                bye law no 27                                                     14 
( G ) Nomination  by Members                                   bye law no 31                                                      16 
( H ) Transfer of Shares and interest in the Capital/Property  of the Society   Bye law no 37  17 
( I ) Exchange  of Flats                                                      bye law no 40                                                  19 
( J ) Sub‐letting etc. of Flats                                           bye law no 42                                                  19 
VIII. RESPONSIBILITIES  AND LIABILITIES  OF MEMBERS     20 
( A ) Maintenance  of Flats by Members  Flats to be maintained      bye law no 44 ‐ 47  
( B ) Expulsion  of a Member                                         bye law no 48                                                      21
( B ) Expulsion  of a Member                                         bye law no 48                                                      21 
( C ) Cessation  of Membership                                      bye law no 54                                                     22 
( D ) Restrictions  on Holding more than One Flat    bye law no 59                                                     23 
( E ) Liabilities  of a Member and the Past Member  bye law no 60                                                     23 
( F ) Other Matters                                                            bye law no 62                                                     23 
IX.   LEVY OF CHARGES  OF THE SOCIETY    BYE LAW NO 64 , 65 , 66, 67 , 68, 69, 70 25 
X.    INCORPORATION,  DUTIES AND POWERS  OF THE SOCIETY     27 
XI.  GENERAL  MEETINGS                                    BYE LAW NO 84 ‐ 108  30
X.    INCORPORATION,  DUTIES AND POWERS  OF THE SOCIETY     27 
XI.  GENERAL  MEETINGS                                    BYE LAW NO 84 ‐ 108  30 
( A ) First General Meeting                                                   bye law no 84                                                     30 
( B ) Annual General Body Meetings                                   bye law no 93                                                  32 
( C ) Special General Body Meetings                                    bye law no 95                                                   32 
XII . MANAGEMENT  OF SOCIETY                     BYE LAW NOS 109 ‐ 139  34 
XIII . MAINTENANCE  OF ACCOUNT  BOOKS AND REGISTERS   140 - 146  42 Subject Index   
Particulars                          bye law no      page no   2 
 XIV. APPROPRIATION  OF PROFITS                BYE LAW NO 147  45 
XV.  TO WRITE OFF OF IRRECOVERABLE  DUES.   BYE LAW NO 148  45
Particulars                          bye law no      page no   2 
 XIV. APPROPRIATION  OF PROFITS                BYE LAW NO 147  45 
XV.  TO WRITE OFF OF IRRECOVERABLE  DUES.   BYE LAW NO 148  45 
XVI. AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS  OF THE SOCIETY             BYE LAW NO 150 ‐ 152  45 
XVII.  CONVEYANCE  / DEEMED  CONVEYANCE  OF THE PROPERTY,  AND 
REDEVELOPMENT  AND REPAIRS/MAINTAINCE  OF THE PROPERTY   46 
XVIII.  OTHER MISCELLANEOUS  MATTERS   49 
XIX.     REDRESSAL  OF MEMBERS  COMPLAINTS     52 
XX ­REGARDING  REDEVELOPMENT  OF SOCIETIES  BUILDINGS   55 
 
   3 
 I. PRELIMINARY 
 
1.  
a. The Name of the Society  shall be 
…………........................ ........................... .................. ................ 
b. The Society shall follow the procedure laid down under Section 
15 of the Act and Rule 14 of the Rules for the change of its 
name. 
c. The Society is classified  under major class "Housing" with sub-
class "Tenant Ownership / Tenant Co-partnership / Other 
Housing Society."
name. 
c. The Society is classified  under major class "Housing" with sub-
class "Tenant Ownership / Tenant Co-partnership / Other 
Housing Society." 
 
2.  
a. The registered  address of the Society  shall be as under: 
…….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. …. …. …. … …. …. …. …. 
.. ….. …… … …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. …. …. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. …… …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. …. 
…. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. …… …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. 
….. ….. …. …. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. ……  
b. Address for Correspondence ( as decided by the Managing Committee)  
…….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. …. …. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. …… … …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. …. …. …. … 
…. …. …. …. .. ….. …… …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. ….. …. 
…. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. …… …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. 
….. ….. …. …. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. ……  
.   
 
c. Any change in the registered address of the Society shall be
…. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. …… …….. …… ….. ….. ….. ….. 
….. ….. …. …. …. … …. …. …. …. .. ….. ……  
.   
 
c. Any change in the registered address of the Society shall be 
intimated by it to the Registering Authority and all others concerned within 30 days of such change. 
d. Any change in the registered address of the Society shall be 
made after following the procedure laid down in Rules. 
e. The Society shall exhibit at a conspicuous place at the main 
entrance of the building, a Board indicating its name. Registration number and the registered address. 
 
II. INTERPRETATIONS 
 
3. Unless otherwise separately provided  in these bye-laws, the following 
words and terms shall have the meaning assigned to them here in : 
 
i. ' Act' means the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act; (MCS Act) 
1960. 
ii. “ Bye-laws ” means by-laws consistent with Act and registered under 
this Act for the time being in force and includes registered amendments of such bye-laws;;
1960. 
ii. “ Bye-laws ” means by-laws consistent with Act and registered under 
this Act for the time being in force and includes registered amendments of such bye-laws;; 
iii. 'Chief Promoter ' means the person who is elected by the 
Promoters, in their first meeting, or in their subsequent meetings in 
case the post of the Chief Promoter lies vacant, till the first general 
meeting. Name of the Societ y
Procedure for 
changing the 
Classification
Address of the 
Society  
Address for 
Correspondence 
Procedure for 
changing the address of the Society 
Exhibition of 
Name Board 
Interpretations of 
the words and 
terms4 
 iv. " Committee " means the Committee of management or board of 
directors or the governing body or other directing body of a 
cooperative Housing Society, by whatever name called, to which the management of the affairs of a Society is entrusted and vested 
under section 73 of the Act. 
v. ' …….. Days ' Clear Notice means the number of calendar days
under section 73 of the Act. 
v. ' …….. Days ' Clear Notice means the number of calendar days 
intervening between the day of posting the notice and the day of the 
meeting; 
vi. ' Flat' means a separate and self contained set of premises used or 
intended to be used for residence, or office, or show-room, or shop, 
or godown and includes a garage, or dispensary, or consulting 
room, or clinic, or flour mill, or coaching classes, or palnaghar, 
beauty parlour, the premises forming part of a building and includes an apartment; 
vii. 'Housing Society Federation ' means the federation of co-
operative housing societies, registered and notified under the Act; 
viii. 'Ownership Flats Act ' means the Maharashtra Ownership Flats 
(Regulation of the Promotion of Construction, Sale, Management 
and Transfer) Act. 1963 
ix. ' Papers ' means all or any of the items mentioned in the bye-laws 
Nos. 142 and143 
x. 'Parking Space ' means open space within the premises of the
and Transfer) Act. 1963 
ix. ' Papers ' means all or any of the items mentioned in the bye-laws 
Nos. 142 and143 
x. 'Parking Space ' means open space within the premises of the 
Society earmarked by it for parking of vehicles and includes a stilt, basement, podium , mechanized parking; 
a. ‘Parking Slot’ 
means demarcated and number ed individual parking 
slot for a single vehicle ( for four wheeler LMV or two wheeler ) within 
the Parking Space available with the Society  
xi. 'Prescribed Form ' means the form included in the Annexure II 
indicating the bye-law No. under which it is prescribed and the 
Appendix at which it is enclosed; 
xii. ' Promoter' means a person, who has signed the application for 
registration of the Society. 
xiii. “ Promoter Builder ” means a person and includes a partnership 
firm or a body or association of person, [whether registered or not]
registration of the Society. 
xiii. “ Promoter Builder ” means a person and includes a partnership 
firm or a body or association of person, [whether registered or not] 
who constructs or causes to be constructed a block or building of flats [or apartments] for the purpose of selling some or all of them to 
other persons, or to a company, Co-operative Society or other 
association of persons, and includes his assignees; and where the person who builds and the person who sells are different persons, 
the term includes both.. 
xiv. ' Rules ' means the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Rules, 
1961; 
xv. 'Reserve Fund ' means the fund constituted under the provisions of 
Section 66 (1) of the Act and the Bye-law No. 12(i); 
xvi. 'Repairs and Maintenance Fund ' means the fund constituted 
under the Byelaw No. 13(a); 
xvii. 'Sinking Fund ' means the fund constituted under the Bye-law No. 
13(c); 
xviii. " Major Repair Funds " means a Fund created by the Society and
under the Byelaw No. 13(a); 
xvii. 'Sinking Fund ' means the fund constituted under the Bye-law No. 
13(c); 
xviii. " Major Repair Funds " means a Fund created by the Society and 
constituted under Bye-law No. 13 (b), for the purpose of Major 
Repairs including Plastering, building of compound wall, pavement, 
total painting, reconstruction. 5 
 xix. " Municipal Act means " the Maharashtra Municipalities Act 1965 
(Mah. XL of 1965). 
xx. " Open space " means an Area, forming a integral part of the site, 
left open to sky. 
xxi. " Open terraces " means terraces which are otherwise not in the 
exclusive possession of any of the Members. 
xxii. " Common Areas and Facilities " means 
a. the land on which the building is located; b. the foundations, columns, girders, beams, supports, main walls, 
roofs, halls, corridors, lobbies, stair-ways, lifts / escalators , fire 
escapes and entrances and exits of the building; 
c. the basements, cellars, yards, gardens, parking areas un-
roofs, halls, corridors, lobbies, stair-ways, lifts / escalators , fire 
escapes and entrances and exits of the building; 
c. the basements, cellars, yards, gardens, parking areas un-
demarcated  / demarcated parking slots, and storage spaces; 
d. the premises for the lodging of janitors or persons employed for 
the management of the property; 
e. installations of central services such as power, light, gas, water 
storage and water heating, water harvesting, pump houses, 
refrigeration, air conditioning, generators, roof top solar devices, 
common antennas and mass communication and data sharing 
devices,  
f. the elevators, tanks, pumps, motors, fans, compressors, ducts 
and in general all apparatus and installations existing for 
common use; 
g. such community and commercial facilities as may have been 
provided for; 
h. all other parts of the property necessary or convenient to its 
existence, maintenance and safety or normally in common use;
provided for; 
h. all other parts of the property necessary or convenient to its 
existence, maintenance and safety or normally in common use; 
 
xxiii. 'Society' means the ............. ...................... ..................... 
...................  ...... Co-operative Housing Society Ltd 
...............................................
registered under the Act  
 
xxiv. "Member" means a person joining in an application for the 
Registration of a Cooperative Housing Society which is 
subsequently registered, or a person duly admitted to Membership 
of a Society after Registration and who holds the right, title and 
interest in the property individually or jointly; 
 
a. “Active Member ” means  
i. One who has purchased and owns a Flat / Unit in the Society. 
ii. One who attends at least one General Body Meeting of the Society
a. “Active Member ” means  
i. One who has purchased and owns a Flat / Unit in the Society. 
ii. One who attends at least one General Body Meeting of the Society 
in the previous five consecutive years. Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to the members whose absence has been condoned by the General Body Meeting 
of the Society. 
iii. Who has paid the Society Maintenance Service and other charges 
at least once in previous consecutive five years. 
 
b. "Associate Member" means a Members who holds the right, title 
and interest in the property individually or jointly with others, but 
whose name does not stand first in the share certificate; 6 
 c. "Nominal Member" means a person who does not hold the right, 
title and interest in the property individually or jointly admitted to 
Membership as such after registration ; 
 
xxv. "Family" means Group of persons which includes husband, wife, 
father, mother, sister, brother, son, daughter, son-in-law, brother-in-
Membership as such after registration ; 
 
xxv. "Family" means Group of persons which includes husband, wife, 
father, mother, sister, brother, son, daughter, son-in-law, brother-in-
law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandson /daughter. 
xxvi. 'Transfer Fees' means the sum payable by a transferor to the 
Society for the transfer of his shares along with occupancy right as 
provided under the Bye-law No. 38(e)(vii). 
xxvii. 'Premium' shall mean and include the amount payable to the 
Society by the Member, transferring his shares and interest in the 
capital/property of the Society, in addition to the transfer fee as provided under bye-law No. 38(e)(ix); 
xxviii. "Working Capital" means funds at the disposable of the Society 
inclusive of the paid up capital, share capital, funds created out of 
profits, and money raised by borrowing or by any other means. 
xxix. ‘Authorized Person’ means a person duly authorized to take action 
under the provisions of this Act. 
xxx.
profits, and money raised by borrowing or by any other means. 
xxix. ‘Authorized Person’ means a person duly authorized to take action 
under the provisions of this Act. 
xxx. 
“State Co-operative Election Authority” means an Authority constituted 
or nominated by the State Government for the purposes of 
superintendence, direction, and c ontrol of the preparation of the 
Electoral Roll for and conduct of the Elections of Committee of a 
Society or such class of Societies as may be notified.  
xxxi. “Expert Director” means and includes a person having experience in 
the field of Housing, cooperation and the field relating to the objects 
and activities undertaken by the Society.  
xxxii. “Functional Director” means and includes a Chief Executive Officer or 
Manager or by whatever designation called, Nominated by a 
Committee and discharges duties and functions as may be assigned to 
him by the Committee.  
xxxiii. "Officer" means a person elected or appointed by a Society to any
Committee and discharges duties and functions as may be assigned to 
him by the Committee.  
xxxiii. "Officer" means a person elected or appointed by a Society to any 
office of such Society and includes any office bearer such as a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Chairperson, President, Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Treasurer, Joint Treasurer, Member of the Committee, 
Manager, and any other person elected or appointed to give directions in regard to the business of such Society.
 
III. AREA OF OPERATION 
4. The area of operation  of the Society  shall be confined to 
 
............................................. ………. ……… …….. …… 
 
Explanation : 
 
1) For the Society in the Bruhan Mumbai insert City Survey no / Gat no. / Final Plot no / Ward no 
2) For the Societies at other places, insert City Survey no / Gat no. / Final Plot no /  Ward / 
Corporation- Municipal limits / Town / Village of.............................. ........ ...... ................. Taluka
Corporation- Municipal limits / Town / Village of.............................. ........ ...... ................. Taluka 
...................................District ............................. 
 
  Area of Operation7 
 IV. OBJECTS 
 
5. The objects of the Society  shall be as under : 
a) To obtain conveyance from the Ow ner/ Promoter Builder, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Ownership Flats Act and the Rules made there 
under, of the right, title and interest, in the land with building/buildings 
thereon, the details of which are as hereunder : 
 
The building / buildings known / numbered as .................................. constructed on the plot / plots nos............../ Survey no. ............. / CTS no.................... of ..................................( village / taluka ) admeasuring 
..................... sq. meters, more particularly described in the application for registration of the Society; 
 
OR  ( APPLICABLE FOR PLOT PURCHASED TYPE SOCIETY )
..................... sq. meters, more particularly described in the application for registration of the Society; 
 
OR  ( APPLICABLE FOR PLOT PURCHASED TYPE SOCIETY ) 
 
*(a) To buy or take on lease a plot or plots nos........ ..../Survey no. .......... 
.... / CTS no .................. of.............. admeasuring. .............. sq. mts. and 
to construct flats thereon for allotment to the Members of the Society for 
their authorised use. 
 
OR 
 To purchase a building or buildings known as ..................... 
.......Constructed on the plot / plots nos / survey no. / CTS 
no............................of ................ admeasuring.................. sq. mts.for 
allotment of flats therein to the Members of the Society for their authorized 
use. 
b) To manage, maintain and administer the property of the Society; 
c) To raise funds for achieving the objects of the Society; 
d) To undertake and provide for, on its own account or jointly with a
b) To manage, maintain and administer the property of the Society; 
c) To raise funds for achieving the objects of the Society; 
d) To undertake and provide for, on its own account or jointly with a 
cooperative or Other Institution Social, Cultural or Recreational activities; 
e) To provide Co-operative Education and Training to develop co-operative 
skills of its Members, Committee Members, Officers and Employees of the 
Society. 
f) To do all things, necessary or expedient for the attainment of the objects 
of the Society, specified in these bye-laws. 
V. AFFILIATION 
 
6. The Society, immediately after its registration, shall become a Member of the 
Co-op Housing Federation of the District / Ward / Taluka, the District Central 
Co-operative Bank. of the District, and shall pay sums, from time to time, 
payable by it, under the bye-laws of the respective organisations referred to 
above. 
VI.  FUNDS, TH EIR UTILISATION AND INVESTMENT 
 
( A ) Raising of Funds
payable by it, under the bye-laws of the respective organisations referred to 
above. 
VI.  FUNDS, TH EIR UTILISATION AND INVESTMENT 
 
( A ) Raising of Funds 
 
7. The funds of the Society may be raised in one or more of the following ways: 
Modes of raising the funds of the Objects of the 
Societ y
Affiliation of the 
Society to other 
Coop Institutions
Modes of raising 
Funds of the Societ
y8 
 a. by entrance fees,  
b. by issue of shares, 
c. by loans and subsidies, 
d. by deposits, e. by voluntary donations, (but not  from Transferor and Transferee) 
f. by contributions towards cost of building or buildings, 
g. by fee on transfer of shares, along with the occupancy right, 
assignment 
h. by premium on transfer of occupancy right over the flats, 
i. by corpus fund from Promoter Builder 
j. by any other mode permitted under these bye-laws, 
k. by way of statutory requirements.
h. by premium on transfer of occupancy right over the flats, 
i. by corpus fund from Promoter Builder 
j. by any other mode permitted under these bye-laws, 
k. by way of statutory requirements. 
l. by way of non-occupancy charges, leasing / hiring of open spaces m. by way of corpus fund, in case of redevelopment  
 
(B)Share Capital 
8. The Authorised  Share Capital  of the Society shall be Rs 
................................divided into ............... shares of Rs. 50 each.  
9. a.) A Share Certificate , prescribed in bye-laws, bear ing distinctive number and 
indicating the name of the Member, the number of shares issued and the value 
paid there on, shall be issued by the Society to every Member for the shares 
subscribed by him, within a period of six months of the allotment of the shares. 
b) the Committee of the Society shall issue a duplicate  share certificate , “So 
Marked”, on application to its members on production of following documents.
b) the Committee of the Society shall issue a duplicate  share certificate , “So 
Marked”, on application to its members on production of following documents. 
1. if the share certificate is lost - copy of police complaint lodged, and an 
affidavit in that regard. 
2. if the share certificate is soiled, burnt, torn, disfigured etc. affidavit in that 
regard. 
10. Every such Share Certificate  shall bear the seal of the Society  and be 
signed and by the Chairman, the Secretary and one Member of the Committee, 
duly authorised by the Committee. The same shall be issued by the Secretary 
of the Society. 
 
(C) Limit of Liabilities 
11. Deposits from Members and loans may be received by the Society for such 
period and at such rate of interest and upto such amount and on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee, provided that at no 
time, the total amount of such liabilities shall exceed the limit prescribed under 
Rule 35 of the MSCS Rules.
time, the total amount of such liabilities shall exceed the limit prescribed under 
Rule 35 of the MSCS Rules. 
 
(D) Constitution of the Reserve Fund 
 
12.  
a. The Reserve Fund of the Society 
shall comprise  of —  
i. all entrance fees received by the Society from its Members; Authorised 
Share Capital 
Issue of Share 
Certificates to the 
Members of the 
Societ y 
Society's seal and 
signature of office bearers on every share certificate 
Restriction on 
incurring liabilities b
y the Societ y 
How the 
Reserve Fund shall be constituted 9 
 ii. all transfer fees received by the Society from its Members on 
transfers of the shares, along with the occupancy rights; 
iii. all premium received by the Society from its Members on 
transfers of their interest in the capital or property of the 
Society; 
iv. the amounts carried to the said fund, from year to year, out of  
the net profit / surplus of that year, subject to the provisions of 
Section 66 (1) and (2) of the Act;
Society; 
iv. the amounts carried to the said fund, from year to year, out of  
the net profit / surplus of that year, subject to the provisions of 
Section 66 (1) and (2) of the Act; 
v. all donations received by the Society, except those received by 
it for the specific purpose. 
b. The Society shall, while finalising the accounts for the preceding 
cooperative year, appropriate all amounts referred to in the bye-law 
No. 12(a)(i) to (v) to the Reserve Fund of the Society. 
 
(E) Creation of Other Funds 
 
13. The Society shall create and establish the following funds by collecting 
contributions from its Members at the rates mentioned hereunder :  
 
a. The Repairs and Maintenance  Fund , at the rate fixed at the general 
body subject to the minimum of 0.75 per cent per annum of the 
construction cost of each flat, incurred during the construction of the 
building of the Society and certified by the Architect, for meeting 
expenses of normal recurring repairs of the Society’s
construction cost of each flat, incurred during the construction of the 
building of the Society and certified by the Architect, for meeting 
expenses of normal recurring repairs of the Society’s 
buildings/property.  
b. Major Repairs Funds , as and when required and decided by the by 
the General Body at the rate fixed pro-rata on area basis.  
c. The Sinking Fund  at the rate decided at the meeting of the general 
body, subject to the minimum of 0.25 per cent per annum of the 
construction cost of each flat incurred during the construction of the building of the Society and certified by the Architect, excluding the proportionate cost of the land. 
d. To create Education  and Training  Fund  from contribution by the 
Members Rs 10 per month / per unit or as decided by the General 
Body. 
 
(F) Utilisation of the Funds by the Society 
 
14. The Society may utilise its Funds in the manner indicated below : 
 
a. Reserve Fund  : The Reserve Fund of the Society may be utilised for
(F) Utilisation of the Funds by the Society 
 
14. The Society may utilise its Funds in the manner indicated below : 
 
a. Reserve Fund  : The Reserve Fund of the Society may be utilised for  
the expenditure on repairs, maintenance and renewals of the Society's 
property. 
 
b. Repairs and Maintenance  Fund : The Repairs and Maintenance Fund- 
may be utilised for meeting the expenditure on maintenance of the 
Society's property and repairs and renewals thereof. 
 
c. Sinking Fund  : On the resolution passed at the meeting of the 
general. Body of the Society, the Sinking Fund may be used by the 
Society for reconstruction of its building/buildings or for carrying out 
such structural additions or alteration to the building/buildings, as in the opinion of the Society's Architect, would be necessary to Appropriation of 
amounts to the 
Reserve Fund of 
the Societ y
Other Funds to be 
created b ythe Societ y
Creation of 
Repairs & Maintenance Fund 
Creation of Major 
Repairs Fund
amounts to the 
Reserve Fund of 
the Societ y
Other Funds to be 
created b ythe Societ y
Creation of 
Repairs & Maintenance Fund 
Creation of Major 
Repairs Fund 
Creation of 
Education & Trainin
g Fund
Utilisation of  
Reserve Fund 
Utilisation of  
Reserve Fund 
Utilisation of  
Sinkin g Fund10 
 strengthen it / them or for carrying out such heavy repairs as maybe 
certified by the Architect and on approval of General Body. 
 
d. The Education&  Training  Fund  be utilized as provided under section 
24(A) of the Act 
 
Utilisation of all the Funds shall be with the specific prior approval of 
Society’s General Body. 
 
(G) Investment of Funds 
 
15. The funds of the Society, when not deployed in its objects, may be invested 
or deposited as required under Section 70 of the Act. Provided that Society's 
funds collection shall be invested on long term basis, along with the interest 
earned thereon by one of the modes permitted under the said section of the 
Act.
funds collection shall be invested on long term basis, along with the interest 
earned thereon by one of the modes permitted under the said section of the 
Act. 
 
VII. MEMBERS, THEIR RIGHTS , RESPONSIBILITIES AND 
LIABILITIES  
 
I. MEMBERSHIP 
 
( A ) Classes of Members 
 
16. The Membership of the Society shall consist of (i) Members, including 
Associate Members and (ii) Nominal Members. 
 
( B ) Eligibility for Membership  
 
17.  
a. No individual shall be admitted as a Member of a Society  
  except the following that is to say – 
 
i. Individual who is competent to contract under the Indian Contract Act, 
1872; 
ii. a Firm, Company or any other B ody Corporate constituted under any 
Law for the time being in force, or a Society registered under the 
Societies Registration Act, 1860; 
iii. a Society registered, or Deemed to be Registered, under the Act; 
iv. the State Government or the Central Government; 
v. a Local Authority;
Societies Registration Act, 1860; 
iii. a Society registered, or Deemed to be Registered, under the Act; 
iv. the State Government or the Central Government; 
v. a Local Authority; 
vi. a Public Trust registered under any Law for the time being in force for 
the registration of such trusts; 
 
b. A minor or a person of unsound mind, inheriting shares and/or interest 
of the deceased Member in the capital/property of the Society, or if 
nominated may be eligible for admission to Membership of the Society 
through his guardian or legal repres entative on an application in the 
prescribed form, along with undertakings / declarations, in the Utilisation of  
Education & 
Trainin g Fund
Utilisation of  
all  Funds with 
approval of General Body 
Investment of  
 Funds 
Classes of 
 Members 
Eligibility for 
Membership of the Society 
Eligibility of Minor or a 
Person of unsound mind for Membership 
of the Society 11 
 prescribed forms, mentioned in the application.
Members 
Eligibility for 
Membership of the Society 
Eligibility of Minor or a 
Person of unsound mind for Membership 
of the Society 11 
 prescribed forms, mentioned in the application. 
 
c. Notwithstanding anything contained in these bye-laws, admission of a 
person to Membership of the Society directly or as a result of Transfer 
of Shares and interest of the existing Member, in the capital/property, 
of the Society, shall be subject to the approval of the concerned 
Competent Authorities such as Collector of the District and the land 
grant terms as applicable, (provided if the Society has been given land 
by Government/CIDCO/MHADA/SRA” or any other authority ) 
. 
Note (1) : "Family" means as defined under Bye law No. 3 (xxv) 
Note (2) : Signatories to the application for Registration of the Society shall be 
Deemed to be the Members of the Society after its Registration. 
Note (3):   The number of Members in the Society shall be limited to the number
Deemed to be the Members of the Society after its Registration. 
Note (3):   The number of Members in the Society shall be limited to the number 
of Flats/ Units constructed in the bui lding/buildings. It shall be binding 
on the committee to restrict the Members to the extent of the number 
of Flats/Units in the Society. 
 
18. A Firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, a Company 
registered under "the Indian Companies Act, 1949, a Society registered under 
the Societies Registration Act. 1860 or a Co-operative Society registered or 
deemed to be registered under the Maharashtra Co-op. Societies Act, 1960, a Local Authority, the State/Central Gove rnment, a Public Trust or any other 
Body Corporate, registered under the law for the time being in force, as 
provided under Section 22(1) (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Act may
 be eligible 
for admission to Membership of the Society. However, admission of Firms and
provided under Section 22(1) (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Act may
 be eligible 
for admission to Membership of the Society. However, admission of Firms and 
Companies to Membership of the Society and holding of flats by them shall be 
regulated in accordance with the notifications issued by the State Government from time to time under the Second Proviso to Section 22 of the Act. 
 
 Note  : For existing terms and conditions of the Government Notification   
  referred to above, see Annexure to these bye-laws . 
 
( C ) Conditions for Membership 
 
19.  
a. An individual / applicant who is eligible to be the Member and who has 
applied for Membership of the Society in the prescribed form, may admitted as Member by the Committee on complying with the following conditions :- 
i. applicant has fully tendered the value of at least Ten shares of the Society, 
along with his Application for Membership; 
ii. applicant has paid the Entrance Fee of Rs. 100/-, along with the Application
along with his Application for Membership; 
ii. applicant has paid the Entrance Fee of Rs. 100/-, along with the Application 
for Membership; 
iii. applicant has submitted the application as prescribed, of the particulars in 
regard to any house, plot or flat owned by him or any of the Members of his 
family, anywhere in the area of operation of the Society;  
iv. applicant has submitted undertaking in the prescribed form to the effect that 
he shall use the flat / unit for the purpose for which it was purchased by him; 
v. applicant has furnished an undertaking in the prescribed form, if he / she has 
no independent source of income; 
vi. applicant has submitted, along with the application for Membership of the 
Society, a certified copy of the agreement, duly stamped and registered 
entered into by him / her/ them with t he Promoter Builder or Transferor under 
Section 4 of the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act; Eligibility of 
Corporate Bodies 
for Membership of 
the Society
entered into by him / her/ them with t he Promoter Builder or Transferor under 
Section 4 of the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act; Eligibility of 
Corporate Bodies 
for Membership of 
the Society 
Conditions for  
Individuals  
desiring to be 
Member of the 
Societ y12 
 vii. applicant has furnished such other undertakings/declarations, in the 
prescribed forms as are required under any law for the time being in force and 
such other information as is required under the Bye-laws of the Society along 
with the application for Membership. 
viii. In case of Societies registered under the jurisdiction of special planning 
Authority like CIDCO / MHADA / SRA / MMRDA etc. the applicant should be 
eligible person as per the provision of respective Act and the directives of the 
Govt. / the Planning Authorities, if any.   
Note : The conditions at (iii), (iv), (v), and (vii) above shall not be   
 applicable to the Promoter Builder, applying for Membership
Govt. / the Planning Authorities, if any.   
Note : The conditions at (iii), (iv), (v), and (vii) above shall not be   
 applicable to the Promoter Builder, applying for Membership  
 of the Society, in respect of the unsold flats. 
. 
b. An Individual, a Firm, a Company or a Body Corporate, registered under 
any Law for the time being in force, who/ which is eligible to be an 
Associate Member and who/which shall apply through Member in the 
prescribed form for such Membership, along with the entrance fee of Rs. 
100/-, may be admitted as Associate Member by the Committee. 
 
c. A Firm, Company or any other Body Corporate, registered under any law for 
the time being in force, which is eligible to be a Member of the Society and 
has made an application for Membership of the Society in the prescribed form 
may be admitted as a Member by the Committee  of the Society on complying 
with the following conditions :- 
i. applicant has sent, along with application for Membership of the
may be admitted as a Member by the Committee  of the Society on complying 
with the following conditions :- 
i. applicant has sent, along with application for Membership of the 
Society, a certified copy of the agreement duly stamped entered into by 
it, with the Promoter(Builder) or transferor under Section 4 of the Ownership Flats Act.1963,with certified copy of resolution of the firm or 
company as the case may, authorizing to sign the application. 
ii. applicant has paid, along with application for Membership, full value of 
at least 10 shares and entrance fee of Rs. 100/-. 
iii. applicant has complied with the conditions mentioned in the 
notifications, issued by the State Government, from time to time, under 
the Second Proviso to Section 22 of the Act. 
iv. applicant has furnished the undertakings / declarations in the 
prescribed forms required under any law for the time being in force 
along with the application for Membership.
iv. applicant has furnished the undertakings / declarations in the 
prescribed forms required under any law for the time being in force 
along with the application for Membership. 
Note : The conditions at (i) and (iii) sh all not be applicable to the   
 firm/ company of the Promoter Builder, applying for    Membership of the Society in respect of the unsold flats. 
 
20. A sublettee, a licensee, a care-taker, or occupant who is eligible to be a 
Nominal Member and who shall apply through Member for such Membership in 
the prescribed form applicable, along with entrance fee of Rs. 100/- may be 
admitted as Nominal Member by the Committee. 
 
21. The procedure for disposal of Application for Membership of the Society, as laid 
under the bye-law No. 65 (a) to (g) shall be followed by the Secretary and the 
Committee of the Society. 
 
  Conditions for 
Individuals desiring to be Member of the Society 
Conditions for 
Membership for Corporate bodies desiring to become 
Society
Committee of the Society. 
 
  Conditions for 
Individuals desiring to be Member of the Society 
Conditions for 
Membership for Corporate bodies desiring to become 
Society 
Conditions for 
Nominal 
Membership 
of the Society 
Procedure for 
disposal of  
Membership 
Applications 13 
 II .RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS  
( A ) Rights of Member 
22.   
a. A Member shall be entitled to exercise such rights as provided in the 
Act, Rules and Bye-laws. Provided that no Member shall exercise the rights of Member of a Society, until he has made such payment to the 
Society in respect of Membership, or acquired such interest in the 
Society. 
b. Provided further that, in case of increase in minimum contribution of 
Member in share capital to exercise right of Membership, the Society shall give a due notice of demand to the Members and give reasonable period of time to comply with . 
 
   Active Member  
 
c. A Member shall be termed as an 'Active Member'  if he / she fulfill
Active Member  
 
c. A Member shall be termed as an 'Active Member'  if he / she fulfill 
the following  conditions : viz.  
 
i. He / She has attended at least One General Body Meeting in 
previous consecutive period of five years, 
Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to the member 
whose absence has been condoned by the General Body Meeting of the Society. 
ii. He / She has purchased and owns Flat / Unit in the Society, and  
iii. He / She has paid the Society Maintenance Service and other 
charges regularly 
d. A Member who is not an 'Active Member' shall be 'Non-Active 
Member'.  
e. Society shall classify the Members as 'Active' or ‘Non-Active' Member 
at the close of every financial year. 
i. Society shall communicate to ev ery Non-Active Member about his  
classification, within a period of 30 days from 31st March of every 
year as  prescribed under thes e By-laws as per Appendix - ----- 
ii.  In case of a dispute about classification of a Member being
year as  prescribed under thes e By-laws as per Appendix - ----- 
ii.  In case of a dispute about classification of a Member being 
Active or Non-Active, an appeal shall lie with the Registrar within a 
period of 60 days from the date of communication of such 
classification.   
f. A ' Non Active Member’  can be reclassified  as 'Active Member'  from the 
date he satisfies the conditions laid down under Byelaw no. 22(c). 
( B ) Getting Copy of the Bye-laws, Audit Report & 
Inspection of Books & Records and getting copies thereof 
 
23.       a. A Member shall have right to inspect free of cost books, registers  
  documents etc. as provided in Section 32 (1) of the Act and get  
  copies  of the documents as provided under Section 32 (2) of the  
  Act, on payment of the fees prescribed under the bye-law  No. 172. 
b. A Member shall be entitled to receive a copy of the Approved Bye-laws, 
Audit Report of the Society, on payment of charges prescribed thereof. 
 Active 
Member
b. A Member shall be entitled to receive a copy of the Approved Bye-laws, 
Audit Report of the Society, on payment of charges prescribed thereof. 
 Active 
Member 
Inspect Societ y’s
record and getting copies thereof 14 
 ( C ) Occupation of Flats 
 
24.  a.The Member, who is deemed to have been allotted the flat under the 
 Bye-law No. 76(a) of the Society shall have a right to occupy the flat  subject to the terms and conditions set out in the letter in the prescribed 
 form under the said bye-law. 
 
 b.  The Associate/Nominal Member may have a right to occupy the flat   with the consent of the Member and written intimation to the Society,   subject to the conditions set out by the General Body Meeting. 
 
 
( D ) Restrictions on Rights of  Associate and Nominal Members 
25. No Associate Member shall have any rights or privileges of an active Member 
except as provided under Section 27(2) of the Act and he fulfills the conditions 
of bye-law 22(a)
25. No Associate Member shall have any rights or privileges of an active Member 
except as provided under Section 27(2) of the Act and he fulfills the conditions 
of bye-law 22(a) 
 
 
26. A nominal Member shall have no rights such as Member. 
 
( E ) Resignation of Membership 
 
( 1 ) Resignation  by a Member  
 
27.  
( a) A Member may resign from Membersh ip after giving three months notice in 
the prescribed form to the Secretary of the Society as provided under Rule 
21(1) of the Rules. 
 
(b) No resignation of a Member of the Society shall be accepted unless  such 
Member has made payment of the charges payable to the Society in full. 
 
(c)  Where any charges are found payable by the Member to the Society, the 
Secretary of the Society shall intimate the same giving full details and reasons of dues thereof to the Member within 15 days of the receipt of the notice of resignation, advising him to make payment thereof within 30 days 
of the date of intimation.
of the date of intimation. 
 
(d)  Where there are no charges of t he Society outstanding with the Member, 
the Committee shall accept the resignation of the Member and the 
Secretary of the Society shall communicate the same to the Member within 
a period of 3months from the date of the receipt of the notice of the 
resignation. 
 (e)  Where any resignation is rejected, the Committee shall record the reasons 
therefore and communicate the same to the Member concerned within three 
months from the date of receipt of notice of resignation. 
 
( 2 ) Resignation  by an Associate  Member  
 
28. An Associate Member may resign his Membership any time by writing the letter 
of resignation to the Secretary of the Society, through the Member, with whom 
he held the shares of the Society jointly. The Secretary of the Society shall 
place the letter of the resignation of the Associate Member, before the meeting
he held the shares of the Society jointly. The Secretary of the Society shall 
place the letter of the resignation of the Associate Member, before the meeting 
of the Committee, held next after the receipt of the letter of the resignation, duly No rights of 
Membership for 
Associate 
Member except 
that under Section 27 
(2)  
 
Notice of resignation of Membership of 
the Society
. 
Resignation not to be 
accepted unless charges of the Society are full
y paid. Communication of  
 outstanding charges 
due to Society  from 
the Member 
Acceptance of 
resignation 
where no charges of 
the Society are 
outstanding. 
Communication of 
reasons for rejection 
of resignation . 
Resignation  by 
an Associate 
Membe r No rights of 
Membership to a 
nominal Member. 15 
 recommended by the Member for acceptance by the Committee. The decision 
of the Committee, accepting the resignation of the Associate Member shall be 
communicated by the Secretary of the Society to the Member and his associate
of the Committee, accepting the resignation of the Associate Member shall be 
communicated by the Secretary of the Society to the Member and his associate 
Member within 15 days of the decision by the Committee. If the resignation is 
rejected, the Committee shall record the reasons therefore in the minutes of its 
meeting and the Secretary shall communicate the same to the Member and his 
associate Member within the time specified above. 
 
( 3 ) Resignation  by a Nominal  Member , occupying the flat on behalf of the 
Firm, Company or any other Body Corporate 
 
28. If there is a nominal Member, occupying the flat on behalf of a firm, company or 
any other body corporate, he/she may resign his nominal Membership, at any 
time, by writing the letter of the resignation to the Secretary of the Society 
through the firm, the company or any ot her body corporate, on whose behalf he 
is occupying the flat. The Secretary of the Society shall place the letter of
through the firm, the company or any ot her body corporate, on whose behalf he 
is occupying the flat. The Secretary of the Society shall place the letter of 
resignation, before the meeting of the committee, held next after the receipt of 
the letter of the resignation of the Nominal Member, duly recommended by the 
firm, the company or any other body corporate for acceptance by the Committee. The decision of the Committee, accepting the resignation shall be 
communicated by the Secretary of the So ciety to the firm, company or the body 
corporate and the nominal Member, within 15 days of the decision by the 
Committee. If the resignation is rejected, the Committee shall record reasons 
therefor in the minutes of its meeting and the Secretary shall communicate the 
same to the firm, company or the body corporate and the nominal Member 
within the time specified above.  
 
( 4 ) Resignation by a Nominal Me mber, who is Sub-lettee, Licensee, 
Caretaker etc.
same to the firm, company or the body corporate and the nominal Member 
within the time specified above.  
 
( 4 ) Resignation by a Nominal Me mber, who is Sub-lettee, Licensee, 
Caretaker etc. 
 
29. A sub-letter, licensee, caretaker or possessor of a flat or part thereof, who has 
been admitted as a nominal Member of the Society may resign his nominal 
Membership at any time, by writing the letter of the resignation to the Secretary 
of the Society, through the Member who has been permitted by the Committee 
to sub-let, give on leave and licence or caretaker basis the flat or part thereof or 
part with its possession in any other manner. The Secretary of the Society shall 
place the letter of the resignation before the meeting of the Committee, held 
next after the receipt of the letter of the resignation duly recommended by the 
Member concerned for acceptance by the Committee. The decision of the 
Committee, accepting the resignation shall be communicated by the Secretary
Member concerned for acceptance by the Committee. The decision of the 
Committee, accepting the resignation shall be communicated by the Secretary 
of the Society to the Member concerned and his sub-lettee the licensee, the 
caretaker, or as the case may be, the possessor of the flat or part thereof, within 15 days of the decision by the Committee. If the resignation is rejected, 
the Committee shall record reasons there for in the minutes of its meeting and 
the secretary of the Society shall communicate the same to the Member 
concerned and his sub-lettee, licensee or caretaker etc. within the time 
specified above. 
 
30. On acceptance of the resignation of the Member, under bye-law No. 27, the 
Society shall acquire the shares and interest of the Member in the capital/ 
property of the Society and pay him the value thereof as provided under the 
bye-law No. 66. 
 
  Resignation by a 
Nominal Member, 
occupying the flat on 
behalf of a firm, 
company or any 
other body corporate .
bye-law No. 66. 
 
  Resignation by a 
Nominal Member, 
occupying the flat on 
behalf of a firm, 
company or any 
other body corporate . 
Resignation by a 
sublettee. 
licensee- or 
caretaker
 
Acquisition of shares
and interest of the Member in the capital/property of the Society. 16 
 ( G ) Nomination by Members 
 
31. A Member  and / or Associate Member of the Society may by writing  under his 
hand, in the prescribed  form, nominate  a person  or persons to whom the 
whole or part of the shares and / or interest of the Member in the capital / 
property of the Society shall be transferred in the event of his death. The 
acknowledgement of the nomination by the Secretary, shall be deemed to be the acceptance of nomination by the Secretary. No fees shall be charged for recording the first nomination. A Member may revoke or revise his nomination,
at any time, by making an application, in writing, under his hand, to the Secretary of the Society. The acknowledgement of the variation in nomination / 
subsequent nomination by the Secretary, shall be deemed to be the cancellation of earlier nomination. Every revision of the nomination shall be charged a fee of Rs. 100/- 
 
32. On receipt of the Nomination form, or the letter for revocation of the earlier 
nomination, the same shall be placed before the meeting of the Committee. 
held next after the receipt of the Nomination form, or the letter of revocation of the earlier nomination, by the Secretary of the Society for recording the same in 
the minutes of the Committee. Every  such nomination  or revocation  thereof 
shall be entered in the register of nominations  by the Secretary  of the Society 
within 7 days of the meeting of the Committee, in which it was recorded. 
 
33. Subject to the provisions of the Section 30 of MCS Act. 1960 bye-law No. 17A
within 7 days of the meeting of the Committee, in which it was recorded. 
 
33. Subject to the provisions of the Section 30 of MCS Act. 1960 bye-law No. 17A 
or 19, on the Death of a Member, the Society shall transfer  the shares  and 
interest of the deceased  Member  in the Capital/Property of the Society to the 
Nominee /Nominees and in proportion with the shares and interest held by the 
deceased Member, in case property is purchased by Member and associate 
Member jointly. In the event of death of the Member, Nominee/Nominees shall 
submit the Application for Membership, within six months from the death of a Member. If there are more than one Nominee, on the death of a Member, such 
Nominees shall make Joint Application to the Society and indicate the name of the Nominee who should be enrolled as  Member. The other nominees shall be 
enrolled as Joint/Associate Members unless the nominees indicate otherwise. 
The nominees shall also file an Indemnity Bond in the prescribed form
enrolled as Joint/Associate Members unless the nominees indicate otherwise. 
The nominees shall also file an Indemnity Bond in the prescribed form 
Indemnifying the Society against any claims  made to the shares and interest of 
the deceased Member in the Capital/Property of the Society by any of them, in 
case only one nominee is indicated by the Nominees for Membership of the Society. 
 
Note:- In case of acquiring Membership on the basis of Nomination, such Member 
shall hold the flat / unit in 'trust' till all the Legal Heirs are brought on record 
and shall not have the right to ownership and shall not create third party 
interest or alienation in any way whatsoever . 
 
34. Where a Member  of the Society dies without making a nomination , or no 
nominee comes forward for transfer, the Society shall invite within six month  
from the information of his death, claims or objections to the proposed transfer
nominee comes forward for transfer, the Society shall invite within six month  
from the information of his death, claims or objections to the proposed transfer 
of Shares and interest of the deceased Member, in the capital/property of the 
Society, by a public notice, in the prescribed form, exhibited on the notice board 
of the the Society. It shall also publish such notice in at least two local news 
papers, having wide circulation. The entire expenses of publication of the notice 
shall be recoverable from the value of shares and interest of the deceased 
Member in the capital/property of the Society. After taking into consideration the 
claims or objections received, in response to the said notice, and after making 
such inquiries as the committee considers proper in the circumstances 
prevailing, the committee shall decide as to the person, who in its opinion is the 
heir or legal representative of the deceased Member. Such a person will be Procedure for 
Nomination
prevailing, the committee shall decide as to the person, who in its opinion is the 
heir or legal representative of the deceased Member. Such a person will be Procedure for 
Nomination 
by a Member and 
its revocation / revision . 
Recording of 
Nomination or revocations / revisions thereof. 
Transfer of 
shares and 
interest of the 
deceased 
Member in the 
capital / property of the 
Transfer of shares 
and interest of the 
deceased Member in 
the capital/property 
otf the Society to the 
heir 17 
 eligible to be a Member of the Society subject to the provisions of the bye-laws 
Nos. 17(a) or 19, provided that he gives an Indemnity Bond along with his 
application for Membership in the prescribed form, indemnifying the Society 
against any claims made to the shares and interest of the deceased Member in 
the capital/ property of the Society, at any  time in future, by any person. If there 
are more claimants than one, they shall be asked to make the affidavit as to
the capital/ property of the Society, at any  time in future, by any person. If there 
are more claimants than one, they shall be asked to make the affidavit as to 
who should become a Member of the Society and such person, named in the 
affidavit shall furnish the indemnity bond as indicated above along with 
application for Membership, referred to above. If however, the committee is not 
able to decide as to the person who is  the heir/legal representative of the 
deceased Member or the claimants do not  come to the agreement, as to who 
should become the Member of the Society, the Committee shall call upon them 
to produce succession certificate from the Competent Court. If, however, there is no claimant, the shares and interest of the deceased Member in the 
capital/property of the Society shall vest in the Society. 
 
35. If there is the single nominee and if he demands payment of the value of 
Shares and interest of the deceased Member, in the capital / property of the
35. If there is the single nominee and if he demands payment of the value of 
Shares and interest of the deceased Member, in the capital / property of the 
Society, the Society shall acquire the same and pay him the value thereof as 
provided under the bye-law No.63. If, however, there are more nominees than 
one and if they demand payment of the value of the shares and interest of the 
deceased Member in the capital/property of the Society, the Society shall 
acquire the same and pay them value thereof as provided under the bye-law 
referred to above in the proportion ment ioned in the nomination form. If no 
proportion is mentioned in the nominati on form, the payment shall be in equal 
proportions. 
 
36. If, in the opinion of the Committee, there is only one heir / legal representative 
of the deceased Member and if he demands payment of the value of the 
shares and interest of the deceased Member in the capital/property of the
of the deceased Member and if he demands payment of the value of the 
shares and interest of the deceased Member in the capital/property of the 
Society, the Society may acquire the same and pay him the value thereof as provided under the bye-law No. 63 after obtaining the indemnity bond referred 
to in the bye-law No. 34. If, in the opinion of the Committee, there are more 
heirs/legal representatives than one and if they demand payment of the value 
of Shares and interest of the deceased Member in the capital/property of the Society, the Society may acquire the same and pay them value thereof in equal proportion as provided under the bye-law No. 66, after obtaining the Indemnity 
Bond referred to in the bye-law No. 35, fr om all the heirs/legal representatives 
jointly. 
 
( H ) Transfer of Shares and interest in  the Capital/Property of the Society 
 
37.  
a. A Member,  desiring  to transfer  his shares and interest in the
jointly. 
 
( H ) Transfer of Shares and interest in  the Capital/Property of the Society 
 
37.  
a. A Member,  desiring  to transfer  his shares and interest in the 
capital/property of the Society shall give 15 days' notice of his intention 
to do so to the Secretary of the Society in the prescribed form, along with 
the consent of the proposed transferee in the prescribed form. 
b. On receipt of such notice, the Secretary of the Society shall place the 
same before the meeting of the Committee, held next after the receipt of 
the notice, pointing out whether the Member is prima-fascia eligible to 
transfer his shares and interest in the capital/property of the Society, in view of the provisions of Section 29(2)(a) of the Act. 
c. In the event of ineligibility (in view of the provisions of section 29(2)(a) & (b) 
of the act) of the Member to transfer his shares and interest in the 
capital/property of the Society, the Committee shall direct the Secretary of
of the act) of the Member to transfer his shares and interest in the 
capital/property of the Society, the Committee shall direct the Secretary of 
the Society to inform the Member accordingly within 8 days of the decision 
of the Committee. Payment of the 
value of Shares and interest of the deceased Member in the 
capital / 
Payment of the value 
of Shares and interest 
of the deceased 
Member in the capital / 
property of the Society 
to the heir / legal 
Representative
Notice of transfer of Shares and interest in 
the capital/property of 
the Society 18 
  
d. "No Objection  Certificate " of the Society is not required  to transfer  the 
shares and interest of the transferor to transferee. However in case such a 
certificate is required by the transferor or transferee, he shall apply to the Society and Committee of the Society may consider such application on 
merit, within one month. 
 
e. The Transferor  / Transferee  shall submit
 following  documents  and fulfill
merit, within one month. 
 
e. The Transferor  / Transferee  shall submit
 following  documents  and fulfill 
compliance  as under: 
i. application in the prescribed form, for transfer of his shares and interest 
in the capital / property of the Society,  along with the Share Certificate; 
ii. application in the prescribed form for Membership of the proposed 
Transferee ; 
iii. resignation in the prescribed form Member / Transferor; 
iv. Registered Agreement with Stamp Duty paid; 
v. valid reasons for the proposed transfer; 
vi. undertaking to discharge all the liabilities to the Society by Transferor; 
vii. payment of the transfer fee of Rs. 500/- 
viii. remittance of entrance fee of Rs. 100/- payable by the proposed 
Transferee; 
ix. payment of amount of premium at the rate to be fixed by the General 
Body Meeting but within the limits  as prescribed under the circular, 
issued by the Department of Co -operation / Government of
Body Meeting but within the limits  as prescribed under the circular, 
issued by the Department of Co -operation / Government of 
Maharashtra, from time to time. No additional amount towards donation 
or contribution to any other funds or under any other pretext shall be 
recovered from transferor or transferee. 
x. submission of 'No Objection Certificate’, required under any law for the 
time being in force or order or s anction issued by the Government, any 
financing agency or any other authority; 
xi. the undertaking / declaration in compliance with the provisions of any 
law for the time being in force, in such form as is prescribed under these bye-laws. 
 
Note : The condition at sr. no. (ix) above shall not apply to transfers of shares and interest , of the 
transferor in the capital / property of the Society to the Member of his family or to his nominee 
or his heir / legal representative after his death and in case of mutual exchange of flats 
amongst the Members. 
 
38.
or his heir / legal representative after his death and in case of mutual exchange of flats 
amongst the Members. 
 
38.  
a. The procedure for disposal of appl ications for transfers of shares 
and/ or interest of Members in the capital/property of the Society as laid down under the bye-law No. 62 shall be followed by the Secretary and the Committee of the Society. 
b. A meeting of the Committee  or the General Body, as the case may 
be, shall not refuse any application  for admission  to Membership  of 
transfer of shares and interest in the capital/property of the Society 
except on the ground of non­compliance  of the provisions of the Act, 
the Rules and the Bye-laws of the Society or any other law or order 
issued by the Government in exercise of the statutory powers vested in it. Disposal of transfer 
applications 
Committee / General 
Body not to ordinarily 
refuse any application 
for  Membership or 
transfer of Shares  19
applications 
Committee / General 
Body not to ordinarily 
refuse any application 
for  Membership or 
transfer of Shares  19 
 c. If the decision of the Committee/General Body meeting as the case 
may be, on the application for transfer of Shares and/or interest in the 
capital/ property of the Society is not communicated to the applicant 
within three months of its receipt, the transfer application shall be 
deemed to have been accepted and the transferee shall be deemed to 
have been admitted as a Member of the Society as provided under 
Section 22(2) of the Act. 
d. Any transfer made in contravention of the Act, Rules or the Bye-laws 
shall be void and not effective against the Society 
 
39. The Transferee shall be eligible to exercise the rights of Membership on receipt 
of the letter in the prescribed form from  the Society or order under section 22 or 
23 of the Act from the Registrar; subject to the provisions of the MCS Act 1960, 
Rules and Bye-laws.
of the letter in the prescribed form from  the Society or order under section 22 or 
23 of the Act from the Registrar; subject to the provisions of the MCS Act 1960, 
Rules and Bye-laws. 
 
( I ) Exchange of Flats 
 
40. The Members, desiring to exchange their flats, shall make a joint application to 
the Secretary of the Society, containing the following details: 
a. The names of the Members concerned; 
b. The distinctive numbers of their respective flats; 
c. The carpet areas (in sq. metres), of their respective flats; 
d. The building number/numbers or name/names of the building/buildings in 
which the respective flats are situated; 
e. The reasons for exchange of flats. 
 
41. The procedure for disposal of applications for exchanges of flats as indicated in 
the bye-law No. 62 shall be followed by the Secretary and the Committee of the 
Society. 
 
( J ) Sub-letting etc. of Flats 
 
42. (1) A member shall intimate to the society, of subletting his flat or giving on
Society. 
 
( J ) Sub-letting etc. of Flats 
 
42. (1) A member shall intimate to the society, of subletting his flat or giving on 
leave and license basis or care taker basis  or parting with its possession in any 
other manner, however the member shall submit a copy of leave and license 
agreement and copy of intimation report to the police station. 
 
(2) No permission of the Society is required to sublet the flat / shop. However the intimation needs to be given to the society 8 days before such subletting.    
43. No Member of the Society shall assign, mortgage or create any charge on his 
occupancy right in the flat without the previous permission in writing of the 
Society.  
Provided that such permission of the Society will not be required for 
assigning, mortgaging or creating any charge on the occupancy right in the 
flat for the purpose of obtaining loan, either for purchase of the flat or for
assigning, mortgaging or creating any charge on the occupancy right in the 
flat for the purpose of obtaining loan, either for purchase of the flat or for 
liquidating the liability incurred by him for the said purpose by way of loan or advance from the employer or the Member or from the Life Insurance 
Corporation of India or from a Bank or the Society or any other agency approved by the Commissioner for Co-operation and Registrar, C.S.M.S. Pune. 
 Deemed to have 
been Admitted 
-if not 
communicated 
within three 
months
Unauthorised 
transfer void. 
Rights of Membership when to be 
exercised by the transferee. 
Application for 
exchange of flats by the Members of the 
Disposal of applications 
for exchanges of 
flats b
y Members.
Sub-letting etc. not permissible except 
under the Society's permission .  
 
Application for 
permission to sub-let etc
Restrictions on 
assignment of 
occupancy right in 
the flat. 20 
 VIII. RESPONSIBILI TIES AND LIABILITI ES OF MEMBERS
under the Society's permission .  
 
Application for 
permission to sub-let etc
Restrictions on 
assignment of 
occupancy right in 
the flat. 20 
 VIII. RESPONSIBILI TIES AND LIABILITI ES OF MEMBERS 
( A ) Maintenance of Flats by Members Flats to be maintained 
 
44. Every Member shall keep his flat / unit in good maintenance.  
 
45.  
a. No Member shall, without the previous permission of the Committee in 
writing, make any additions  to or alterations  in his flat. 
b. The Member, desirous of making any additions to or alterations in his flat 
shall make an application to the Secretary of the Society, giving all the 
required particulars. Further action on such application shall be taken by the 
Secretary and the Committee of the Society as provided under the bye-law No. 65. 
c. No structural changes are permissible, without the prior permission of the 
concerned competent authority. 
 
46.  
a. For facilitating discharge of functions mentioned under the bye-law No. 156
c. No structural changes are permissible, without the prior permission of the 
concerned competent authority. 
 
46.  
a. For facilitating discharge of functions mentioned under the bye-law No. 156 
by the Committee, every Member shall allow the Secretary of the Society, 
accompanied by any other Member of the Committee, to enter upon his flat 
with prior intimation to the Member, to examine its condition for ascertaining 
the repairs, if any, necessary. The Secretary of the Society shall make a 
report to the Committee, indicating therein the particulars of the repairs to 
be carried out by the Society at its cost and those by the Members at their 
cost. 
 
b. On receipt of such report, the committee shall ascertain the cost involved in 
the repairs, which are required to be carried out by the Society at its cost as 
provided under the bye-law No. 160(a) and cause the notice to be served 
on the Member for such period as the Committee thinks adequate, of its
provided under the bye-law No. 160(a) and cause the notice to be served 
on the Member for such period as the Committee thinks adequate, of its 
intention to carry out the repairs and there-upon the Member concerned shall allow the workmen engaged by the Society directly or through its architect, access to his flat for carrying out the repairs. If the Member 
concerned fails to give access to his flat, without reasonable and convincing 
reasons, the Secretary of the Society shall have authority to enter upon the 
flat and carry out the work under the Supervision of the Member of the 
Committee duly authorised by it in that behalf or the architect appointed by 
the Society. 
 
c. In respect of the repairs to be carried out by the Member at his cost, the 
Committee shall cause the notice to be served on the Member, indicating 
therein, the particulars of repairs necessary at his flat and calling upon him
Committee shall cause the notice to be served on the Member, indicating 
therein, the particulars of repairs necessary at his flat and calling upon him 
to carry out the repairs to his flat to the satisfaction of the architect approved 
by the Society, if any, at his cost, within such period as the Committee may allow. On his failure to comply with the notice, the Secretary of the Society 
or the architect appointed by the Society shall have authority to enter upon 
the flat and cause the repairs to be carried out after giving due notice 
to the Member concerned. The amount spent by the Society on such 
repairs shall be recoverable from the Member concerned. 
 
 
47. No Member, without the previous permission of the Committee, in writing shall 
stock or store any kind of goods or materials, which are combustible obnoxious 
or other goods, for the storing of which requires permit / sanction of the 
competent authority under any law relating thereto. 
 Additions and 
alterations
or other goods, for the storing of which requires permit / sanction of the 
competent authority under any law relating thereto. 
 Additions and 
alterations 
in a flat 
permissible with the Committee's 
Application for 
permission for  
Making additions and alterations 
in a flat 
Examination of 
flats and report 
about Repairs to 
Flats 
Notice to the Member 
about carrying out repairs in his flat by the Societ
y at its cost. 
Notice to the Memberfor carrying 
out repairs to his flat at his cost . 
Restrictions on storing 
of certain goods. 21 
 a. No Member shall do or suffer anything to be done in his fiat which may cause 
nuisance, annoyance or inconvenience to any of the Members of the Society 
or carry on practices which may be repugnant to the general decency or 
morals of the Members of the Society. 
 
 
b. It shall be competent for the Committee either sou-moto or on receipt of the 
complaint from any Member, to take steps to stop all such practices referred
b. It shall be competent for the Committee either sou-moto or on receipt of the 
complaint from any Member, to take steps to stop all such practices referred 
to in the bye-law No. 47(a) forthwith. 
 
( B ) Expulsion of a Member 
 
48. A Member may be expelled from the. Membership of the Society, if such a 
Member 
a. has persistently failed to pay the charges due to the Society, 
b. has willfully deceived the Society by giving false information, 
c. has used his flat for immoral purposes or misused it for illegal purposes 
habitually, 
d. has been in the habit of committing breaches of any of the provisions of 
the byelaws of the Society, which, in the opinion of the Committee, . are of 
serious nature, 
e. has furnished false information or omitted to furnish the material 
information to the Registering Authority at the time of registration of the Society. 
f. A Non-Active Member who does not attend at least one meeting of the
information to the Registering Authority at the time of registration of the Society. 
f. A Non-Active Member who does not attend at least one meeting of the 
general body in next five years from the date of classification as Non-
Active Member 
 
49.  
a. The cases of expulsion from the Membership of the Society shall be dealt 
with in the manner provided under Section 35 of the Act, read with Rule 28 
and 29 of MSCS Rules. 
 
b. Expulsion from Membership may involve forfeiture of the shares held by the 
Member. Where the Committee decides that expulsions from Membership 
should also involve forfeiture of the shares, it shall make necessary 
reference to the proposed forfeiture of the shares in the notice to be issued 
under Rule 29 of the Rules. 
 
50. The Member, duly expelled from Membership of the Society, shall cease to be 
the Member of the Society, with effect from the date on which the resolution of 
expulsion from the Membership of the Society is approved by the Registering
the Member of the Society, with effect from the date on which the resolution of 
expulsion from the Membership of the Society is approved by the Registering 
Authority'. The forfeiture of shares may take effect simultaneously with 
expulsion. Handing over vacant possessi on of the flat by the expelled Member. 
 
51. The Member, who has been duly expelled from the Membership of the Society, 
shall not be entitled to continue in occupation of his flat and he shall arrange to 
hand over peaceful and vacant possession of his flat to the Secretary of the 
Society, within such period as the Committee may allow. On his failure to do so, 
he shall be liable to be evicted from his flat. Acquisition of the Shares and interest of the expelled Member. 
 
52. If the meeting of the general body of the Society has decided not to forfeit the 
shares, the interest of the expelled Member in the capital/property of the 
Society and the value thereof shall be acquired by the Society and the value
shares, the interest of the expelled Member in the capital/property of the 
Society and the value thereof shall be acquired by the Society and the value 
thereof shall be paid to the expelled Member, within 3 months of his handing 
over possession of his flat or his eviction from it, after following the procedure Not to do 
anything causing 
inconvenience, 
to other 
Members. 
Committee to 
take action on 
complaints  
Grounds on 
which a 
Member could be 
expelled. 
Procedure for 
expulsion 
of a Member. 
Membe r
Effect of expulsion 
on 
Membership of the 
Society. 22 
 as laid down under the bye-law No. 66 in respect of payment of the value of the 
shares and interest in the capital/property of the Society acquired by the 
Society. 
 
53. No Member of the Society, who has been expelled from its Membership, shall 
be eligible for readmission to Membership in the Society, until expiry of the 
period of one year from the date of his expulsion, provided that on the
be eligible for readmission to Membership in the Society, until expiry of the 
period of one year from the date of his expulsion, provided that on the 
recommendations of the meetings of the general body of the Society, the 
expelled Member may be re admitted to its Membership, as a special case 
before the expiry of the period of one year, with the prior permission of the 
Registering Authority. 
 
( C ) Cessation of Membership 
 
54. The person shall cease to be the Member of the Society: 
a. On his resignation from Membership of the Society having been accepted 
by the committee. 
b. On transfer of all his shares and interest in the capital/property of the 
Society. 
c. On his death. 
d. On his expulsion from the Membership of the Society. 
e. On being adjudged as an insolvent or legally disabled from continuing as 
Member. 
f. If the whereabouts of the Member are not known for continuous seven 
years and if his shares & interest in the property/capital of the Society is not
Member. 
f. If the whereabouts of the Member are not known for continuous seven 
years and if his shares & interest in the property/capital of the Society is not 
claimed by anybody else. 
g. On cessation of right/title & interest of a Member in the property of the 
Society, by way of legal attachment or sale.  
h. Any transfer if void as provided under bye law number 38 (d)  The Committee shall take further action in the matter as indicated in the 
bye-law No.61. 
 
55. The person shall cease to be the Associate Member of the Society, when the 
Member, whose name stands first, ceases to be the Member of the Society or on the death of the Associate Member or on the acceptance of the resignation of the Associate Member by the Committee,  
However the associate member shall not cease to be Associate Member when 
the First Member ceases to be the member of the society if Associate Member 
holds title and interest in the property jointly with the member.
the First Member ceases to be the member of the society if Associate Member 
holds title and interest in the property jointly with the member.  
The Committee shall take further action in the matter as indicated in the Bye-law 
No. 61. 
 
56. If there is a Nominal Member, occupying the flat on behalf of the firm, company 
or any other body corporate he shall cease to be as such Member of the 
Society : 
a. On his death. 
b. On the acceptance of his resignation by the Committee. 
c. On cessation of Membership of the original Member on whose behalf he 
occupies the flat in the Society. 
d. On cessation of his nomination on account of expulsion of the original 
Member. 
e. On intimation from the original Me mber of termination of the occupants 
nomination. Circumstances 
under which a 
person ceases to 
be a Member  Eligibility of 
the expelled 
Member for 
readmission 
Circumstances 
under which 
the person 
occupying the 
flat onbehalf of 
the firm / 
company 
ceases tobe 
the nominal
be a Member  Eligibility of 
the expelled 
Member for 
readmission 
Circumstances 
under which 
the person 
occupying the 
flat onbehalf of 
the firm / 
company 
ceases tobe 
the nominal 
Member. 
 Circumstances 
under which the 
person shall  cease 
to be Associate 
Member. 23 
  
The Committee shall take further action in the matter as indicated in the bye-law 
No.58. 
 
 
57. The Nominal Member, who is the sublettee, licensee or care-taker or possessor 
in any other manner of the flat or the part thereof shall cease to be as such 
Member of the Society: 
a. On his death. 
b. On his resignation having been accepted by the Committee. 
c. On the cessation of the Membership of the original Member. 
d. On the expiry of the period for which the flat or part thereof was permitted to 
be sub-let, given on leave and license or care-taker basis or occupied in any other manner. 
 
Note : The words 'original Member' used in the bye-laws Nos. 54, 55, 56 and 57
be sub-let, given on leave and license or care-taker basis or occupied in any other manner. 
 
Note : The words 'original Member' used in the bye-laws Nos. 54, 55, 56 and 57 
mean the Member, with whom the Associ ate Member/s hold the shares of 
the Society jointly, the Firm, the Co mpany or any other Body Corporate, 
on whose behalf the nominal Member occupies fiat in the Society's 
building or the Member who has been permitted to sub-let, give on leave 
and license or care-taker basis his flat or part thereof or part with its 
possession in any other manner. The Committee shall take further action 
in the matter as indicated in the bye-law No. 58. 
 
58. The Committee shall record the facts of  cessation of Members Membership of 
the Society under the bye-law No. 54 and of Associate and Nominal Member's 
Membership respectively under the bye-laws Nos. 55, 56 and 57, in the Minutes 
of its Meetings and accordingly the Secretary of the Society shall inform the
Membership respectively under the bye-laws Nos. 55, 56 and 57, in the Minutes 
of its Meetings and accordingly the Secretary of the Society shall inform the 
concerned Members in writing within 7 days of the dates of such decision of the 
committee. 
 
( D ) Restrictions on Holding more than One Flat 
 
59.  Individual Member of the Society may hold more than one flat, in the building/s 
of the Society in his name or in the name of any of the Members of his family 
subject to the conditions as provided under the provisions of Section 6 of the 
"Act". 
 
( E ) Liabilities of a Member and the Past Member 
 
60. The liability of a Member of the Society shall be limited to his shares-holding in 
the Society. 
 
61. The liability of the past Members of the Society for the debts of the Society, as 
they stood on the date of the cessation of his Membership and the liability of the 
estate of the. deceased Member of the Society for the debts of the Society as
they stood on the date of the cessation of his Membership and the liability of the 
estate of the. deceased Member of the Society for the debts of the Society as 
they stood on the date of his death shall continue for the period of 2 years from the date of his cessation or death respectively as per the provisions of Section 
33(1) of the Act. 
 
( F ) Other Matters 
62.  
a. All the applications for (i) admission to Membership of the Society, including 
associate and nominal Membership, (ii) approval to the transfers of Shares 
and interest in the capital/property of the Society, (iii) intimation for subletting Circumstances 
under which a 
Sub lettee, 
licensee 
.carelaker 
ceases to be the 
nominal Member 
Action by the Committee 
on cases of cessation of Membership of the Societ
y
Holding of multiple 
flats  
byMember.
Liability limited 
to unpaid 
amount on 
Shares-
Liabilit y of the 
past 
Member.24
on cases of cessation of Membership of the Societ
y
Holding of multiple 
flats  
byMember.
Liability limited 
to unpaid 
amount on 
Shares-
Liabilit y of the 
past 
Member.24 
 or giving flats or parts thereof on leave and license or care-taker basis, (iv) 
permission for additions and alterations in flats, (v) allotment of parking 
spaces and stilts (vi)permission for exchange of flats (vii) permission for 
holding, additional flats, (viii)permission for assigning, mortgaging or creating 
charge or interest in fiats,  (ix) permission for use of terrace, and (x) 
complaint application of the members (xi) for any other purpose provided 
under the byelaws but not specifically mentioned above, shall be addressed 
to the Secretary of the Society. Every application received by the Secretary 
shall be acknowledged by him. 
b. On receipt of the applications, the Secretary of the Society shall scrutinize  
them   and bring any short-coming therein to the notice of the Members
shall be acknowledged by him. 
b. On receipt of the applications, the Secretary of the Society shall scrutinize  
them   and bring any short-coming therein to the notice of the Members 
concerned within 15 days of their receipt for compliance; 
c. The Secretary shall place all the applications, complete in all respects, or 
incomplete, before the meeting of the Committee or the general body, as the 
case may be, held next after receipt of the applications; 
d. The Committee or the General Body, as the case may be, shall consider all 
such applications at its meetings and take decisions thereon; . 
e. The Committee shall ensure that all the applications received by the 
Secretary of the Society are disposed off within the maximum period of 3 
months from the dates of their receipt; except application for subletting. 
f. If the Committee or the General Body, as the case may be, rejects any 
applications, it shall record, in the minutes of its meetings, the reasons for
f. If the Committee or the General Body, as the case may be, rejects any 
applications, it shall record, in the minutes of its meetings, the reasons for 
rejection of the applications; 
g. The Secretary of the Society shall communicate the decisions of the 
Committee or the General Body, as the case may be, to the applicants 
concerned within 15 days of the decisions of the Committee or the General 
Body, as the case may be, with reasons, where the applications are rejected 
by the Committee or the General Body, as the case may be, If the Society 
does not communicate the decision to the applicant within three months from the date of receipt of application for Membership; including nominal or associate Membership, the applicant shall be deemed to have been admitted 
as a Member as provided under Section 22(2) of the Act. 
 
63. Wherever the question of payment of the value of the shares and the interest of
as a Member as provided under Section 22(2) of the Act. 
 
63. Wherever the question of payment of the value of the shares and the interest of 
any Member of the Society, in its capital/property, as the result of acquisition of the same by the Society arises, the following procedure shall be followed : 
 
a. The value of Shares or interest in the share capital of the society shall be 
decided in accordance with the provisions of Section 29 read with Rule 23 of the MSCS Rules, 
b. The interest of the expelled Member in the property/capital of the Society, 
shall be valued by the Government approved valuer. 
c. Within one month of the date of demand for payment of the value of the 
shares and interest in the capital/property of the Society, or acquisition of the same by the Society, the Committee shall, by publication of the notice in at least two widely circulated news papers and exhibition thereof on the 
notice board of the Society, invite offers for price proposed to be paid for
notice board of the Society, invite offers for price proposed to be paid for 
acquiring interest in the flat, within such period as is mentioned in the 
notice. 
d. On receipt-of the offers, the Committee, in its meeting, shall scrutinize the 
same and decide to accept the offer which is the highest, which shall not be 
less than the approved value as determined in (ii) above. 
e. The Committee shall then advise the person, offering the highest price, to 
make an application for Membership of the Society, in the prescribed form 25 
 along with a demand draft for the price offered, value of 5 Shares of the 
Society and the entrance fee of Rs. 100/-. 
f. On realisation of the demand draft and within one month of the admission of 
the said person to Membership of the Society, the Committee shall arrange 
to pay the value of the interest in the flat realised by the Society,  
i. To the Member whose resignation has been accepted by the 
Committee, or
to pay the value of the interest in the flat realised by the Society,  
i. To the Member whose resignation has been accepted by the 
Committee, or  
ii. To the nominee/s legal heir/s of the deceased Member who demanded 
payment of the value of the Shares and the interest in the capital or property of the Society or  
iii. To the expelled Member Together with the value of the shares as 
determined under (i) above and after deducting the following 
a. outstanding amounts, if any, due from such Member. 
b. the entire expenses of the publication of the notice. 
c. Expenses incurred for the disposal of the interest of the Member in 
the property/capital of the Society. The payment shall be made in 
the manner provided under the bye-laws Nos. 36, 37 and 55 to the 
nominee/nominees or heir/heirs, respectively. 
 
IX.   LEVY OF CHARG ES OF THE SOCIETY 
 
64. The contribution  to be collected  from the Members  of the Society , towards
nominee/nominees or heir/heirs, respectively. 
 
IX.   LEVY OF CHARG ES OF THE SOCIETY 
 
64. The contribution  to be collected  from the Members  of the Society , towards 
outgoing and establishment of its funds, referred to in these bye-laws as 'the 
charges' may be in relation to the following : (i) Property Taxes, (ii) Water 
Charges, (iii) Common Electricity Char ges, (iv) Contribution to Repairs and 
Maintenance Fund, (v) Expenses on repairs and maintenance of the lifts of the 
Society, including charges for running the lift. (vi) Contribution to the Sinking 
Fund, (vii) Service Charges, (Viii) Car Parking Charges, (ix) Interest on the 
defaulted charges, (x) Repayment of the installment of the loan and interest, (xi) 
Non-occupancy Charges, (xii) Insurance C harges, (xiii) Lease rent, (xiv) Non-
agricultural tax. (xv) Education and Training Fund (xvi) Election Fund (xvii) Any 
Other Charges.
Non-occupancy Charges, (xii) Insurance C harges, (xiii) Lease rent, (xiv) Non-
agricultural tax. (xv) Education and Training Fund (xvi) Election Fund (xvii) Any 
Other Charges.  
 
 
65. The Service charges of the Society  referred to at 64 (vii) above shall include the 
following: 
a. Salaries of the office staff, liftmen, watchmen, malis and any other 
employees of the Society. 
b. Where the Society has independent Office, the property taxes, electricity 
charges, water charges etc. for the same.  
c. Printing, Stationery and Postage, 
d. Travelling Allowance and conveyance charges to the staff and the Members 
of the Committee of the Society. 
e. Sitting fees paid to the Members of the Committee of the Society, f. Subscription to the Education Fund of the Maharashtra Rajya Sahakari 
Sangh Ltd. 
g. Annual Subscription of the Housing Federation and any other co-operative 
institution to which the Society is affiliated.
Sangh Ltd. 
g. Annual Subscription of the Housing Federation and any other co-operative 
institution to which the Society is affiliated. 
h. Entrance fees for affiliation to the Housing Federation and any other 
cooperative institution. 
i. Audit Fees for internal, Statutory and reaudit, if any. j. Expenses incurred at meetings of the general body, the Committee an the 
Sub-Committee, if any Composition of 
the Charges of the 
Society. 
Break-up of 
ServiceCharges 
of the Society. 26 
 k. Retainer fees, legal charges, statutory enquiry fees. 
l. Common electricity charges. 
m. Any other charges approved by the General Body at its Meeting. However 
such charges should not contradict the provisions of the Act, Rules and 
Bye-laws of the Society. 
 
66.  
a. The Committee  shall apportion  the Share of each Member  towards the 
charges of the Society on the following basis: 
i. Property taxes  : As fixed by the Local Authority
66.  
a. The Committee  shall apportion  the Share of each Member  towards the 
charges of the Society on the following basis: 
i. Property taxes  : As fixed by the Local Authority 
ii. Water Charges : On the basis of total number and size of inlets 
provided in each flat. 
iii. Expenses on repairs and maintenance of the building/buildings of the  
Society   : At the rate fixed at the general body from time to time, 
subject to the minimum of 0.75 percent per annum, of the construction 
cost of each flat for meeting expenses of normal recurring repairs. 
iv. Expenses on repairs and maintenance of the lift, including charges for  
running the lift  : Equally by all the Members of the building in which lift 
is provided, irrespective of the fact whether they use the lift or not. 
v. Sinking Fund  : As provided under the bye-law No. 13(c). 
vi. Service Charges: Equally divided by number of flats / units. 
vii. Parking Charges : At the rate fixed by the General Body of the Society
vi. Service Charges: Equally divided by number of flats / units. 
vii. Parking Charges : At the rate fixed by the General Body of the Society 
at its meeting under the bye-law No. 84/85. 
viii. Interest on the delayed payment of Charges : At the rate fixed under the  
bye-law No. 72 to be recovered from the defaulter Member. 
ix. Repayment of the installment of the loan and interest : The amount of 
each - installment with interest fixed by the financing agency. 
x. Non-occupancy charges : At the rate fixed under the byê-law No. 
43(b)(iii). 
xi. Insurance Charges  : The built up areas of each flat, provided that if 
there is increase in the insurance premium due to storing any specific goods in any flat, used for commercial purposes, the extra burden of 
insurance premium shall be shared by those who are responsible for 
such increased premium in proportion of the built up areas to their flats. 
xii. Lease Rent    : The built up area of each flat / unit.
such increased premium in proportion of the built up areas to their flats. 
xii. Lease Rent    : The built up area of each flat / unit. 
xiii. Non-Agricultural tax  : The built up area of each flat / unit 
xiv. Education & Training Fund : Rs. 10 per Flat/unit per month. 
xv. Election Fund   : Equally by the Members and as prescribed by 
the Election Authority in the Rules 
xvi. Any other charges  : As may be decided by the General Body 
Meeting of the Society 
 
b. The Committee shall fix in respect of every flat the Society charges on the 
basis laid as down under the bye-law No, 66 (a). 
 
67. The following repairs and maintenance  of the property  of the Society  shall be 
carried out by the Society at its costs: 
a. ( i ) All internal roads, (ii) Compound wa lls, (iii) External water pipe lines, (iv) 
Water pumps,(v) Water storage tanks, (vi) Drainage lines, (vii) Septic tanks,
a. ( i ) All internal roads, (ii) Compound wa lls, (iii) External water pipe lines, (iv) 
Water pumps,(v) Water storage tanks, (vi) Drainage lines, (vii) Septic tanks, 
(viii) Stair cases, (ix) Terrace and parapet walls, (x) Structural repairs of roofs of all flats, (xi) Stair-case lights, (xii) Street lights, (xiii) External walls of the building/ buildings, (xiv) All leakages of water including leakages due to rain 
water, and leakages due to external common pipe line and drainage line, 
(xv) Electric lines upto main switches in the flats (xvi) Lifts, (xvii) The 
damaged ceiling and plaster thereon in the top floor flats, on account of the 
leakage of the rain water through the terrace.(xviii) Generators,(xvix) Sharin g of the 
Society's Charges 
by the Members. at 
its meeting. 
Committee to fix Society's Charges 
in respect of every 
flat. 27 
 Security Appliances (CCTV, Interc om, Group Mobile, Mass Data Sharing
Society's Charges 
by the Members. at 
its meeting. 
Committee to fix Society's Charges 
in respect of every 
flat. 27 
 Security Appliances (CCTV, Interc om, Group Mobile, Mass Data Sharing 
Devices, Siren Bell) (xx) Rain Water Harvesting,(xxi) Sewerage, Storm water Drain & Water Treatment Plant (xxii) Common areas not specifically allotted ,Swimming Pool, Gym, Sauna Bath, Co ffee House (xxiii) Common Parking 
Space (xxiv) Solar and alternate energy devices. (xxv) Garden (xxvi) 
Community hall 
b. All the repairs, not covered by the bye­law No. 158(a) shall be carried out 
by the Members  at their cost. The expenditure of the internal leakage due to 
toilet, sink etc. should be borne by concerned flat holders, with intimation to 
the Society. 
68. The Secretary of the Society, shall prepare bill/demand notice in respect of the 
charges of the Society payable by Members on the basis of the bye-law No. 70 
(a) and issue the same to all the Members on or before the date fixed by the
charges of the Society payable by Members on the basis of the bye-law No. 70 
(a) and issue the same to all the Members on or before the date fixed by the 
Committee in that behalf. Every Member of the Society shall pay the amount 
mentioned in the bill /demand notice in full within such period as may be fixed 
by the Committee. 
 
69.  
a. A Member shall be deemed to have committed default in payment of the 
charges of the Society, if the payment mentioned in the demand notice/bill is not made within the period as prescri bed under Section 73CA of the Act. The 
Secretary of the Society shall bring the cases of defaults in payment of the Society's charges to the notice of the Committee for taking further necessary 
action.   
b. In case of default by Member in payment of maintenance and service 
charges, the committee shall initiate a recovery proceeding under section 101 
of the Act. 
 
70. A Member shall be required to pay simple interest at twenty one percent per
charges, the committee shall initiate a recovery proceeding under section 101 
of the Act. 
 
70. A Member shall be required to pay simple interest at twenty one percent per 
annum, or, at such lower rate as may be fixed by the General Body, on the 
outstanding dues to the Society, from the date the amount was due as 
prescribed under Bye-law no. 69, till full and final payment by the Member 
 
X.    INCORPORATION, DU TIES AND POWERS OF THE 
SOCIETY 
 
 
71. The registration of the Society shall render it a body corporate by the name 
under which it is registered, with perpetual succession and common seal and 
with power to acquire, hold and dispose of the property, to enter into contracts 
and other legal proceedings and to do all such things as are necessary for the 
purpose for which it is constituted.  
 
72. The Common Seal of the Society shall be in the custody of the Secretary of the 
Society and shall be used under the authority by means of a resolution of the
72. The Common Seal of the Society shall be in the custody of the Secretary of the 
Society and shall be used under the authority by means of a resolution of the 
Committee on the Deeds of conveyance, share certificate or any other 
documents, to which the seal is affixed on behalf of the Society, shall be 
attested by the Chairman, the Secretary and one Member of the Committee, 
authorised by the Committee in that behalf along with their name and 
designation.  
 Payment of the 
Society's Charges . 
Review of 
payment defaults cases of  Societ
y char ges.
Incorporation.
Common Seal. 28 
 73. The Society shall have a charge on the shares and/or interest of a Member, 
present or past, in the capital/property of the Society and upon any dividend, 
bonus or profits, payable to a Member in respect of any charges due from 
such Member or past Member to the Society and may set off any sum 
credited by or payable to a Member, in or towards there payment of such
such Member or past Member to the Society and may set off any sum 
credited by or payable to a Member, in or towards there payment of such 
charges, as provided under Section 46 of the Act. 
 
74.  
a. The Member, person/firm who had purc hased the flat under an agreement 
under Section 4 of the Ownership Flats Act, or acquired interest in the flat on 
transfer of the same by existing Mem ber with previous permission of the 
Society, shall be deemed to have been allotted the same flat by the Society 
subject to the terms and conditions set out in the letter of allotment in the 
prescribed form, including subsequent modifications made by the Society  
 
b. The allotment of flats in the building/buildings of the Society shall be made 
to its Members on the basis of (i) the first come first served, (ii) full payment of the demands, made by the Societ y from time to time or (iii) by 
drawing lots as may be decided by the General Body Meeting. The Secretary
drawing lots as may be decided by the General Body Meeting. The Secretary 
of the Society shall issue letters of allotment of flats in the prescribed form to 
the respective Members and obtain confirmation letters from them 
 
c. Where any Member fails to pay any calls made by the Society under the 
bye-law No. 74(a), within the time allowed to him by the committee the 
allotment of flat made in his favour, shall stand cancelled and the Secretary 
of the Society, under instructions from the Committee, shall inform the 
Member accordingly. Where such cancellation has been made, the flat may 
be allotted to other applicant approved by .the committee, if a Member, 
whose allotment is cancelled, makes payment of the calls and Committee at its meeting may consider the matter regarding re allotment of any other flat 
to him if it is available for allotment 
d. No Member shall be eligible to get possession of the flat allotted to him
to him if it is available for allotment 
d. No Member shall be eligible to get possession of the flat allotted to him 
unless he has made full payment towards shares, cost of construction, 
repayment of the loan instalments, which have fallen due and/or any other 
charges demanded by the Society, under these bye-laws. 
e. No Member of the Society shall use the flat / unit deemed to have been 
allotted to him under (a) above, for a purpose other than that mentioned 
in the letter of allotment, without the previous consent in writing of the 
Committee. 
75.   
a. The Society shall cause to undertake the Structural Audit of the building as 
follows 
i. for buildings aged between 15 to 30 years.. .. once in 5 years 
ii. for buildings aged more than 30 years  ..  .. ..  once in 3 years 
b. Such Structural Audit by Societies which are in Municipal Corporations 
limits shall be conducted by approved Engineers from the Corporations
b. Such Structural Audit by Societies which are in Municipal Corporations 
limits shall be conducted by approved Engineers from the Corporations 
panel. In case of other Societies such structural audit shall be carried by the 
Govt. Approved  Structural  Engineers  / Architect,  and maintain record 
thereof  
c. The Society shall undertake  to carry out periodical  Fire Audit of its property 
as per the State Fire Policy, and maintain record thereof  
d. The Society shall carry out periodical  Inspection  of Lifts / Elevators and 
maintain record thereof  Handin g over 
possession of 
flats.Policy for allotment of flats
Change of user not permissible without the sanction of the 
Committee. Flat 
purchased is 
deemed to 
have been 
allotted. Char ge and set off 
in respect of Shares and interest of a Member of the 
Society . 
Societ y to carr y out 
Structural Audit. Cancellation of allotment of flats.29
have been 
allotted. Char ge and set off 
in respect of Shares and interest of a Member of the 
Society . 
Societ y to carr y out 
Structural Audit. Cancellation of allotment of flats.29 
  
76. The committee shall, after getting occupation or completion certificate from 
the local authority, scrutinize the allotment register from time to time and issue 
instructions to the Secretary of the Society to hand over possession of flats to 
the respective Members who have compli ed with the provisions of the bye-law 
no. 17 / 19. 
 
 
77.  
a. The Society shall in the General Body meeting frame and adopt Parking 
Rules to regulate the Parking slots, in accordance with the Act and Rules 
there under 
b. The allotment of Parking Space shall be made by the Committee on the 
basis of "First Come First Served", for available parking slots However the 
Member shall have no right to sell or transfer the Parking Slot allotted by the 
Society.
basis of "First Come First Served", for available parking slots However the 
Member shall have no right to sell or transfer the Parking Slot allotted by the 
Society. 
c. No Member shall be entitled to utilize more parking slots than that officially 
allotted to him by the Society 
 
78. Where any parking slots have been built or open space in the Society's 
compound is available for parking of cars, the Society shall number and demarcate the stilts and / or the open space in such a way that no 
inconvenience would be caused to any of the Members of the Society. The 
Committee shall ensure that the space is used by the Members for the purpose 
for which it is allotted to them. 
 
79. A Member having a vehicle will be eligible to have parking slot. Normally no 
Member shall be eligible for being allotted more than one parking slot. The 
vehicles may be owned by him or allotted to him by his employer, or the firm of
Member shall be eligible for being allotted more than one parking slot. The 
vehicles may be owned by him or allotted to him by his employer, or the firm of 
which he is the partner or the company of which he is the director. If any 
parking slots remain unallotted for want of applicants, additional parking slots 
may be allotted to such Members who already have a slot allotted to them in normal course. Such allotment of additional parking slots shall be made on year 
to year basis, provided the same are not required by other Members, who have 
not been allotted even a single parking slot. 
 
80. In case the number of eligible Members for parking slots is in excess of the 
available parking slots, then the Managing Committee shall allot parking slots on annual basis by fair and transparent process, in concurrence with the 
General Body regulations. 
 
81. The Member, desiring to have parking slot, may make an application to the
General Body regulations. 
 
81. The Member, desiring to have parking slot, may make an application to the 
Secretary of the Society giving necessary details. The procedure laid down 
under the bye-law No. 64 for disposal of applications, shall be followed by the 
Secretary and the Committee of the Society. 
 
82. Every Member shall pay the for parking c harges for the number of slots allotted 
to him / her at such rate as may be decided by the General Body of the Society 
at its meeting, irrespective of the fact whether he actually parks his vehicle or 
not. 
 
 
83. Every Member, having a scooter, a motor cycle, or an autorickshaw shall obtain 
prior permission of the Committee for parking his vehicle in the compound of 
the Society and pay the charges fixed by the General Body of the Society at its 
meeting. 
 To obtain 
certificate of possession from the allottee 
Policy for allotment 
of parking slots 
Marking of 
parking slots Restriction on 
parking slots 
Eligibility for
meeting. 
 To obtain 
certificate of possession from the allottee 
Policy for allotment 
of parking slots 
Marking of 
parking slots Restriction on 
parking slots 
Eligibility for 
allotment of  
parking slots. 
Applications for 
allotment of  
parkin g slot.
Payment of 
charges for 
parking of 
vehicles.
Parking of other 
vehicles.30 
 XI.  GENERAL MEETINGS 
 
( A ) First General Meeting 
 
84. The First General Body meeting of the Promoters, who have signed the 
Application for Registration of the Soci ety, shall be held within the period 
of three months of the date of the registration of the Society, as provided 
under Rule 59 of the Rules. It shall be the responsibility of the Chief 
Promoter Society to convene First General  Body meeting within the stipulated 
period. 
 
85. On failure of the Chief Promoter of the Society to hold the First General 
Body meeting within the period mentioned in bye-law no 86, the 
Registering Authority shall cause it to be convened.
85. On failure of the Chief Promoter of the Society to hold the First General 
Body meeting within the period mentioned in bye-law no 86, the 
Registering Authority shall cause it to be convened. 
 
86. Clear fourteen days Notice of the First General Body Meeting of the 
Society shall be given by the Chief Promoter of the Society or as the case 
may be, by the Officer Authorized by the Registering Authority, to all the 
promoters, who have signed the application for Registration of the Society.  
. 
87.  
a. At the First General Body Meeting of the Society, the following 
business shall be transacted : 
i. Election of a President for the meeting, 
ii. Admission of new Members (oth er than the promoters) who have 
applied for Membership of the Society. 
iii. Receiving and Approving the Statement of Accounts, as prepared by 
the Chief Promoter of the Society, as on fourteen days prior to the 
date of the First General Meeting of the Society ( ie: as on the Date of Notice ).
the Chief Promoter of the Society, as on fourteen days prior to the 
date of the First General Meeting of the Society ( ie: as on the Date of Notice ). 
iv. Constitution of a Provisional Commi ttee until regular elections are held 
under bye-laws of the Society. The Provisional Committee shall have 
the all powers and functions as that of the Committee elected in 
accordance with the Act, Rules & Bye-laws. 
v. Fixing the limit up to which funds may be borrowed. 
vi. Authorising the Committee to secure conveyance of the right, title and 
interest in the property in the name of the Society, from the Promoter 
Builder, 
vii. Appoint internal Auditor of the Society for the year, if necessary and fix 
his remuneration. 
viii. Authorise One of the Members of  the Provisional Committee to call 
the first meeting of the Provisional Committee, 
ix. Consider affiliation of the Society as Member of the Housing 
Federation of the District and other institutions mentioned in bye-law 
no. 6,
the first meeting of the Provisional Committee, 
ix. Consider affiliation of the Society as Member of the Housing 
Federation of the District and other institutions mentioned in bye-law 
no. 6, 
x. Consider any other matter to be brought before the meeting with the 
permission of the Chair, excepti ng those requiring proper notice. 
 
(I
N ADDITION FOLLOWING ARE APPLICABLE FOR 
PLOT-PURCHASED TYPE SOCIETY ) 
 
xi. To review and approve the Report of the Chief Promoter of the 
Society regarding the work done and proposed to be done with 
reference to the financial and physical aspects of the scheme of 
construction. Holding of the first 
General Meeting within 
the stipulated period.
Calling the first general 
meeting by the 
Registering Authority. 
 
Period of notice for the
first general meeting 
Functions of the first
General Meetin g31 
 xii. To confirm the agreement for purchase of the plot/building for the 
Society entered into by the Chief Promoter of the Society with the
Functions of the first
General Meetin g31 
 xii. To confirm the agreement for purchase of the plot/building for the 
Society entered into by the Chief Promoter of the Society with the 
vendors. 
xiii. To approve the site plan and the scheme of construction. 
xiv. To confirm the appointment of Architect of the Society made by the 
Chief Promoter of the Society or to appoint an Architect if no such 
appointment is made by the Chief Promoter of the Society or -to 
appoint a new architect in place of the one already appointed. 
 
b. Where the First General Meeting fail s to elect a Provisional Committee, the 
Registering Authority shall be competent to Nominate such a Committee, 
including the Chairman and the Secretary of the Society for a period of one 
year. 
 
88. The person, who presides over the Fi rst General Meeting shall record the 
Minutes of the Meeting, sign them and hand them over to the Secretary of the
year. 
 
88. The person, who presides over the Fi rst General Meeting shall record the 
Minutes of the Meeting, sign them and hand them over to the Secretary of the 
Society elected at the first meeting of the Provisional Committee or nominated 
by the Registration Authority under the bye-law no. 87(b). 
 
89. The Chief Promoter of the Society shal l, immediately after election of the 
Office Bearers of the Society, at the first meeting of the Provisional Committee 
or its nomination by the Registering Au thority under the bye-law no. 87(b), hand 
over to the Chairman of the Society or any Member of the Provisional 
Committee authorised by it on that behalf :- 
a. all records of the Society, particularly the copy of the application for 
registration of the Society, received back from the Registering Authority, 
b. the copy of the by-laws of the Society registered by the Registering 
Authority, 
c. the certificate of registration of the Society,
b. the copy of the by-laws of the Society registered by the Registering 
Authority, 
c. the certificate of registration of the Society, 
d. the challans for amounts credited into the bank, 
e. the counterfoils of the used cheques and the unused cheques, forms f. the bank pass books, 
g. the copies of all the agreements entered into by him with different parties, 
h. the statement of accounts as prepared by him, 
i. the applications for Membership, j. the statement of information of the promoters, k. the vouchers for amounts expended, 
l. the cash balance, if any, 
m. the site plan/ the scheme of construction (for plot purchase type) 
n. the minutes of the first general meeting of the Society, 
o. the files of the correspondence with the Registering Authority, the Local 
Authority, 
p. and all such other records, also in digital form and assets of the Society 
as are in his possession, not withholding anything with him. 
q. prepare a documents handover report
Authority, 
p. and all such other records, also in digital form and assets of the Society 
as are in his possession, not withholding anything with him. 
q. prepare a documents handover report  
 
90. The Provisional Committee or the Nominated Committee shall have the all 
powers and functions as the committee duly elected in accordance with the Act, 
Rules & Bye-laws of the Society. 
91. The Provisional Committee or the Nominated Committee shall be in office for a 
period of one year or until the regular elections are held under the Bye-laws of 
the Society. 
 
92. The Chairman of the Provisional Committee or the Nominated Committee shall 
handover charge of all the assets and documents & papers of the Society to 
the' Chairman of the newly elected Committee at the time of its first meeting, Nomination of a 
provisional 
committee by the 
Registering 
Authorit y. 
Recording of 
minutes at the first 
General Mmeeting. 
Handing over 
records by the 
Chief Promoter of 
theSociet y.
provisional 
committee by the 
Registering 
Authorit y. 
Recording of 
minutes at the first 
General Mmeeting. 
Handing over 
records by the 
Chief Promoter of 
theSociet y. 
Powers of the 
Provisional 
Committee. 
Handing over 
charge by the Provisional 
Committee. 32 
 leaving nothing with him/them includi ng the record mentioned under bye-law 
no. 89. 
 
( B ) Annual General Body Meetings 
93.  
a. The Annual General Body Meeting of the Society shall be held on or before 
30th September each year as provi ded under Section 75(1) of the Act. (as 
there is no provision for extension of time to hold AGBM ) 
b. In case of default in calling the Annual General Body Meeting as stipulated 
in bye-law 93(a) above, shall attract disqualification and action as provided 
under section 75(5) of the Act.   
 
94. The Annual General Body Meeting of the Society shall transact the following 
business : 
a. to read the minutes of the last annual General Body Meeting of the Society
94. The Annual General Body Meeting of the Society shall transact the following 
business : 
a. to read the minutes of the last annual General Body Meeting of the Society 
and the Special General Body Meeting of the Society, if any, and to note the 
action taken thereon, 
b. to receive from the committee, the Annual Report of its activities on the 
preceding co-operative years working, together with the statement of 
accounts in form 'N' prescribed under Rule 62(1) of the Rules, showing the 
Income And Expenditure during the preceding cooperative year and the 
Balance Sheet as at the close of the preceding co-operative year. 
c. to consider Audit Report, received fr om the Auditor appointed as provided in 
section 75(2A) of the Act for the previous co-operative year , 
d. to receive from committee the Audit Rectification Report and Action taken 
thereon 
e. to place Annual Budget for the next Financial Year for consideration.
d. to receive from committee the Audit Rectification Report and Action taken 
thereon 
e. to place Annual Budget for the next Financial Year for consideration. 
f. to appoint an Auditor, for the Audit, from the panel approved by State 
Government. 
g. to receive from the Committee the Annual Return as stipulated in section 
75(2) & 95 (1b) 
h. to consider any other matters, specifically requiring decisions, concurrence or 
sanction of the General Body Meeting of the Society, by virtue of the 
provisions in the Act, Rules and the Bye-laws of the Society, 
i. to consider any important communications received from the Registering 
Authority, the Statutory Auditor, Government, Collector, Local Authority or any 
other Competent Authority. 
j. to declare date and conduct of election of its Committee when due, 
k. to consider any other matter, with the permission of the Chair, excepting 
those requiring proper notice, after t he regular agenda is over and which are
k. to consider any other matter, with the permission of the Chair, excepting 
those requiring proper notice, after t he regular agenda is over and which are 
permitted under the provision of the Act, Rules & Bye-laws.. 
 
( C ) Special General Body Meetings 
 
95. A Special General Body Meeting of the Society may be called at any time at the 
instance of the Chairman or by the decision of the majority of the Committee 
and shall be called within one month of the date of the receipt or requisition, in 
writing signed by at least 1/5th of the Members of the Society or from the 
Registering Authority or from the Housing Federation, to which the Society is 
affiliated. The meeting so convened shall not transact any business, other than 
that mentioned in the Notice of the Meeting, fixing date, time and place for a 
Special General Body Meeting requisitioned. 
 Holdin gof AGM
Meeting 
When a special 
general body 
meeting should be 
convened. Functions of the 
annual general body
Special General Body Meeting requisitioned. 
 Holdin gof AGM
Meeting 
When a special 
general body 
meeting should be 
convened. Functions of the 
annual general body 
meeting of the 
Society. 
 33 
 96. The requisition for the special general body meeting of the Society, under the 
bye-law no. 95 shall be placed within 7 days of its receipt, before the Meeting of 
the Committee, by the Secretary of the Society, for fixing the date, time and 
place for the Special General Body Meeting of the Society. 
 
97. The committee shall decide the date, time and place of every General 
Body Meeting of the Society and the business to be transacted thereat; 
provided that the business to be transacted at the requisitioned Special General 
Body Meeting shall be only that mentioned in the requisition. The notice 
convening the General Body Meeting shall be issued by the Secretary of the 
Society as provided in Bye-law no. 161. On his failure to issue the notice, the 
Chairman shall issue it.
convening the General Body Meeting shall be issued by the Secretary of the 
Society as provided in Bye-law no. 161. On his failure to issue the notice, the 
Chairman shall issue it. 
 
98. In case of the Annual General Body Meeting, 14 clear day's Notice and in 
the case of the special general body meeting, 5 clear day's notice of the 
meeting shall be given to all the Members of the Society, as provided under 
Bye-law No. 161, under intimation to the Federation and to the Registering 
Authority. In case of an emergency, the Special General Body Meeting may be 
called even at a shorter notice, if the Committee unanimously decides to call 
the Special General Body Meeting at a shorter notice. The Agenda of such 
emergency meeting and the reasons of emergency for which the meeting is 
called shall be communicated in writing to all the Members. Also the decision of 
such meeting shall be communicated in writing to all the Members, within two 
days of such meeting.
called shall be communicated in writing to all the Members. Also the decision of 
such meeting shall be communicated in writing to all the Members, within two 
days of such meeting. 
 
99. The quorum for every general body meeting of the Society shall be 
2/3rd of the total number of Members of the Society or 20, whichever is less. 
 
100. If within half an hour after the time appointed for general body meeting of 
the Society, there is no quorum, the meeting, if convened upon the requisition 
of the Members, shall be dissolved. In any other case, it shall be adjourned to a later hour on the same day and at the same place, as may have been specified 
in the notice, calling the general body meeting of the Society or to a subsequent 
date, not earlier than 7 days and not later than 30 days and at such adjourned 
general body meeting, the business on the agenda of the original general body meeting shall be transacted, whether there is requisite quorum or not.
general body meeting, the business on the agenda of the original general body meeting shall be transacted, whether there is requisite quorum or not. 
 
101. If all the business on the agenda of the General Body Meeting of the Society 
cannot be transacted on the day on which the General Body Meeting is 
convened, the meeting shall be postponed to any other suitable date as may be 
decided by the Members present at the meeting, however not later than 30 
days from the date of the meeting. 
 
102. The Chairman of the Society shall preside over all General Body Meetings 
of the Society, in case if the Chairman is absent or if present and is unwilling to 
preside, the Members present may elec t a person from amongst themselves to 
preside over the meeting. 
 
103. No proxy or a holder of power of attorney or letter of authority shall be eligible 
to attend a General Body Meeting of the Society on behalf of a Member of the Society.
103. No proxy or a holder of power of attorney or letter of authority shall be eligible 
to attend a General Body Meeting of the Society on behalf of a Member of the Society. 
 
104. Voting right of a Member and the Associate Member of the Society shall be 
regulated in accordance with the provisions of Section 27 of the Act. 
 
105. At the General Body Meeting of the Society, every Active Member of the 
Society and in his absence, his Associate Member shall have one vote only. In Notice of a General 
Body Meeting. 
Period of notice of a 
general body meetin
g. 
Quorum for the General 
Body Meetin g. 
Holding of the 
adjourned General 
Body Meetin g. 
Chairman of the 
Society to preside  over all General  Bod
y Meetin gs. 
Restrictions 
onattending a generalbody meeting 
by aproxy. 
Votin
g right of a
Member.
One Member 
One vote.34 
 case of equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a casting 
vote.
Restrictions 
onattending a generalbody meeting 
by aproxy. 
Votin
g right of a
Member.
One Member 
One vote.34 
 case of equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a casting 
vote. 
 
106. Unless otherwise specifically provided under the Act, the Rules and the 
Bye-laws of the Society, all questions at a General Body Meeting of the 
Society shall be decided by a simple majority of Members present and 
voting at the meeting. 
 
107. The committee shall finalise the draft minutes of every general body meeting 
of the Society within 3 months of the date of the meeting and circulate the draft 
minutes amongst all the Members of the Society within 15 days of the meeting 
of the Committee at which the draft minutes were finalised. The Members of 
the Society may communicate to the Secretary of the Society, their observations, if any, on the draft minutes, within 15 days of the date of their 
circulation. The Committee, at its subsequent meeting, shall prepare the final
circulation. The Committee, at its subsequent meeting, shall prepare the final 
minutes of the general body meeting after taking into consideration the 
observations, if any, made by the Members on the draft minutes and cause 
them to be recorded in the minutes book, by the Secretary of the Society or any 
other person authorised in that behalf. 
 
108. No resolution can be brought at a General Body Meeting of the Society, 
cancelling its previous resolution, unless six clear months have elapsed, 
after passing of the previous resolution. 
 
XII . MANAGEMENT OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE SOCIETY 
 
109. Subjects to the provisions of the Act, the Rules and the Bye-laws of the 
Society, the final authority of the Society shall vest in its General Body Meeting, summoned in such manner as is specified in these Bye-laws. 
 
110. The Management of the affairs of the Society shall vest in the Committee 
duly constituted in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Rules and
110. The Management of the affairs of the Society shall vest in the Committee 
duly constituted in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Rules and 
the Bye-lawsof the Society.
 
 
 
111. Subject to the direction given or regulation made by a Meeting of The 
General Body of the Society, the Committee shall exercise all powers, 
expressly conferred on it and discharge all functions entrusted to it under the 
bye-law No. 137. 
 
112. A Banking Account shall be opened by the Society in the nearest State or 
District Central Co-op Bank / a Scheduled Bank having awarded “ A “ Audit Class in last three consecutive years, , Nationalised Bank, and in any other mode permitted by general or special order of the State Government, as 
provided under section 70 of the Act and the account shall be operated upon and all acquaintances and discharges shall be signed by the Secretary jointly 
with the Chairman or Treasurer.
provided under section 70 of the Act and the account shall be operated upon and all acquaintances and discharges shall be signed by the Secretary jointly 
with the Chairman or Treasurer. 
 
113. The Committee shall consist of *11 / 13 / 15 / 17 / 19 Members of the Society. 
This strength includes the reservation of seats as provided under section 73B 
and 73C of the Act. 
Note: *The strength of the managing committee and strength of the quorum for 
conducting the meeting would be as under :- 
 How decisions shall 
be taken.
Recording of the 
minutes of the 
general body 
meetin gs.
Cancellation of the
previous resolution of the general body 
meeting. 
General body 
meeting to be the 
supreme authority. 
Management of the 
Society to ve st in the 
Committee.
Exercise of powers 
by the Committee 
Opening of 
Banking 
Account. and 
Investment of 
Funds 
Stren
gth of the 
Committee. 35 
 No of Members 
of the Society Strength of the Managing Committee 
Quorum for
by the Committee 
Opening of 
Banking 
Account. and 
Investment of 
Funds 
Stren
gth of the 
Committee. 35 
 No of Members 
of the Society Strength of the Managing Committee 
Quorum for 
Meeting * General Reserved  
Total 
Women SC/ST OBC VJ/NT/SBC 
Upto100 6 2 1 1 1 11 6 
101 to 200 8 2 1 1 1 13 7 
201 to 300 10 2 1 1 1 15 8 
301 to 500 12 2 1 1 1 17 9 
501 and above 14 2 1 1 1 19 10 
 
*Quorum for the Meeting will be simple majority of the existing Committee 
Members  
 
114.  
a. Election of all the Members of the Committee shall be held once in 5 years, 
before the expiry of its term, in accordance with the provisions of Sec 73- CB 
of the Act and the Rules / procedure framed there under. It shall be the duty of the Committee to intimate to the State Election Authority for holding of its 
election before expiry of its term. On failure the Committee Members shall 
cease to hold office after expiry of it s term, and attract action by the Registrar 
under section 77 A.
election before expiry of its term. On failure the Committee Members shall 
cease to hold office after expiry of it s term, and attract action by the Registrar 
under section 77 A. 
b. The Committee of the Society may co-opt two “Expert Directors” relating to 
the objects and activities under taken by the Society..The number of such 
co-opted Members shall not exceed two in addition to the strength of the 
committee as provided in bye-laws No. 113., such co-opted Members shall not have the right to vote in any election of the Society in their capacity as such Member or to be eligible to be elected as office bearers of the 
committee. 
c. The Committee of the Society may co-opt two “Functional Directors”, such 
Members shall be excluded for the purposes of counting the total numbers of 
the committee and shall have no right to vote. 
d. In respect of housing society having contribution of the Government towards 
its share capital, then the members of the committee shall include two
the committee and shall have no right to vote. 
d. In respect of housing society having contribution of the Government towards 
its share capital, then the members of the committee shall include two 
officers of the Government nominated by the State Government, which shall 
be in addition to the number of members specified as above, and as 
provided under section 73 AAA of the Act. 
e. The Election of the Society shall be conducted by the State  Cooperative 
Election Authority under section 73CB  
115.  No Officer of the Society shall have any interest, directly or indirectly, 
otherwise than as such officer: ( a ) In any contract made with the Society.( b ) 
In any property sold or purchased by the Society. ( c ) In any other transaction of the Society, except as investment made in or loan taken from the Society for provision of residential accommodation by the Society to any paid employee of 
the Society.
the Society. 
 
116.  No person shall be eligible for being elected as a Member of the Committee 
 or co-opted on it, if : Election of the 
Committee. 
Prohibition a gainst 
being interested in 
the Societ y 36 
 a. he / she has been convicted of the offence, involving moral turpitude, unless 
the period of six years has elapsed since his conviction ; 
b. he / has defaults the payment of dues to the Society, within three months 
from the date of service of notice in writing, served either by hand delivery or 
by registered post, demanding the payment of dues  ; 
c. he /she has been held responsible under Section 79 /  88 / 147 of the Act or 
has been held responsible for the payment of the costs of enquiry under 
Section 85 of the Act ; 
d. In case of an Associate Member, non-submission of the no-objection 
certificate and undertaking, as prescribed under these bye-laws, by the 
Member ; 
e. he is not an Active Member ;
d. In case of an Associate Member, non-submission of the no-objection 
certificate and undertaking, as prescribed under these bye-laws, by the 
Member ; 
e. he is not an Active Member ; 
f. he has without previous permission in writ ing has sublet his flat or part thereof 
or given it on leave and license or care taker basis or has parted with its 
possession in any other manner or has sold his shares and interest in the society  
 
117. In a General Election of Members of the Committee of a Society, on the 
election of two-thirds or more number of Members, the Returning Officer or any other Officer or Authority conducting such election shall within seven days after the declaration of results of the election of such Members, the committee has, 
for whatever reason, has not been so fa r constituted, forward their names 
together with their permanent addresses to the Registrar, who shall, within 
fifteen days from the date of receipt thereof by him, publish or cause to be
together with their permanent addresses to the Registrar, who shall, within 
fifteen days from the date of receipt thereof by him, publish or cause to be 
published such names and addresses by affixing a notice on the Notice Board 
or at any prominent place in his office; and upon Constitution of the Committee 
such publication, the Committee of the Society shall be deemed to be duly 
constituted. In determining two-thirds of the number of Members, a fraction 
shall be ignored. 
 
118.  
a. A person shall cease to be the Member of the Committee, if: 
i. he has incurred any of the disqualifications mentioned under the byelaw 
No. 116 or ; 
ii. he has failed to attend any three consecutive monthly meetings of the  
Committee, without leave of absence. 
b. If a Member of the Committee attracts any of the disqualifications under 
the bye-law no. 118 (1), the Committee shall record the fact in the minutes 
of its meeting and the Secretary of the Society shall inform the Member
the bye-law no. 118 (1), the Committee shall record the fact in the minutes 
of its meeting and the Secretary of the Society shall inform the Member 
and Registrar accordingly. Such Member shall cease to be the Member of Managing Committee on the order of the Registrar 
 
119.  No Member of the Committee shall be present at the consideration of any 
matter, in which he is directly or indirectly interested.  
 
120. The period of office of the Committee elected under the bye-law No. 114(a) 
shall be for 5 years from the date of assuming the office. 
 
121.  
a. The first meeting of the newly elected jointly with outgoing Committee shall be 
held within 30 days from the date of constitution of the new committee as per bye-law No. 117 and the provisions of Section 73AAA. Cessation of a 
Member of the 
Committee.
Intimation of 
Cessation of Membership of 
the Committee. 
Period of Office of 
the elected Committee.
First Meeting of 
new committee. 37
Member of the 
Committee.
Intimation of 
Cessation of Membership of 
the Committee. 
Period of Office of 
the elected Committee.
First Meeting of 
new committee. 37 
 b. Subject to the provisions of the bye-law No. 121(a) the Secretary of the 
outgoing Committee shall issue notice of the first meeting to the Members of 
the newly elected Committee and the outgoing Committee thereof. On the 
failure of the Secretary of the outgoing Committee to convene the joint 
meeting, the Chairman of the outgoing Co mmittee shall call it. On the failure 
of both, the Registration Authority may call such a meeting. 
 
122. All records of the Society shall be kept at its premises, convenient to 
the secretary, with the approval of the Committee of the Society.    
123. When the new Committee is elected, the Secretary of the outgoing 
committee shall prepare the list of papers and property of the Society in his 
custody and hand over the charge thereof to the outgoing Chairman.  The
committee shall prepare the list of papers and property of the Society in his 
custody and hand over the charge thereof to the outgoing Chairman.  The 
retiring Chairman shall hand over the charge of the office of the Committee 
and all papers and property of the Society, in his possession to the Chairman 
of the new Committee, as per provisions contained in Section 160 of the MCS 
Act 1960. 
Note : The word ‘Paper’ used in this bye–laws and any other bye-laws shall 
mean all and / or any items mentioned in the bye-laws nos.141 and 142, and data / information in digital form  
 
124.  
a. Every Committee, at its first meeting, after its election shall elect 
a Chairman, Secretary and Treasure from amongst the Members of the 
Committee. 
b. The Officer of the Society shall hold office for the period of 5 
years from the date on which he is elected to be the Chairman as the case may be the Secretary and Treasurer but not beyond the expiry of 
term of the Committee.
years from the date on which he is elected to be the Chairman as the case may be the Secretary and Treasurer but not beyond the expiry of 
term of the Committee. 
Provided that he shall cease to be the Officer, if the motion of No 
Confidence  is moved in the special meeting of the Committee called and 
presided by the Registrar or such officer not below the rank of a Assistant Registrar upon the notice given by 1/3rd Members of the Committee and the motion of No confidence is passed by the 2/3rd Members present at 
such meeting, who are entitled to vote at the election of such Chairman, 
Secretary or Treasurer.  
Provided further that another motion of No Confidence  shall not be 
brought against the Chairman or as the case may be the Secretary or Treasurer of the Society unless the period of 6 months has elapsed from 
the date of preceding motion of the No Confidence . 
 
125. The Committee meeting shall be normally held in the premises of the Society.
the date of preceding motion of the No Confidence . 
 
125. The Committee meeting shall be normally held in the premises of the Society. 
The quorum for Committee Meeting shall be as mentioned in Bye-law No. 113. It shall not be competent for the Committee to transact any business unless there is the quorum at the time of consideration of every item on the agenda of 
the meeting of the Committee. 
 
126.  
a. The Committee shall meet as often as necessary but at least once in a 
month.  
b. in case of emergency, the Committee may place a resolutions and get the 
same passed by the Committee Members, however the same be placed 
before the next subsequent meeting. 
 Custod y of the records 
of the Societ y. 
outgoing Chairman to 
handover charge to 
new Chairman 
At the first meeting New Committee to 
.Election New Office Bearers 
Motion of no 
confidence against 
office bearers 38 
 127. The Committee may fill a casual vacancy on the Committee by nomination out
.Election New Office Bearers 
Motion of no 
confidence against 
office bearers 38 
 127. The Committee may fill a casual vacancy on the Committee by nomination out 
of a same class of Active Members in respect of which the casual vacancy has 
arisen as per section 73 CB and as per the instruction issued by State Co-
operative Election Authority  
 
128. The period of office of the co-opted Member of the Committee shall be 
coterminous with tenure of Office of the Committee.  
 
129. A Member of the Committee may, by a letter addressed to the Chairman 
of the Society, resign his Membership of the committee.  The resignation 
shall be effective from the date it is accepted by the Committee or on 
expiry or the period of one month from the date of the receipt of the letter 
or resignation by the Chairman or the Secretary of the Society, whichever is earlier. 
 
130.   
a. The Chairman of the Society may resign his office as Chairman by a
or resignation by the Chairman or the Secretary of the Society, whichever is earlier. 
 
130.   
a. The Chairman of the Society may resign his office as Chairman by a 
letter addressed to the Secretary of the Society;  
b. The Secretary or Treasurer of the Society may resign his office as 
Secretary or Treasurer by a letter addressed to the Chairman of the Society. 
c. Chairman/Secretary/Treasurer’s resi gnation will be effective only after its 
acceptance and handing over the charge to the newly elected 
Chairman/Secretary/Treasurer, as the case may be. 
d. The Committee may accept the resignation of the office of the 
Chairman/Secretary/Treasurer only after it is satisfied that the Chairman or as 
the case may be the Secretary or Treas urer of the Society has brought upto 
date the work entrusted to him and has produced the entire papers and 
property of the Society, in his possession, before the Committee.
date the work entrusted to him and has produced the entire papers and 
property of the Society, in his possession, before the Committee. 
e. In case entire committee intends to resign, the resignations of the committee 
shall be placed before the General Body and such resignations shall be effective from the date of acceptance of such resignations by the General 
Body. This fact of acceptance of resignations of the entire Committee by the 
General Body, shall be communicated to the Registrar by the outgoing 
officers and Registrar may take necessary action as provided under section 
77 A of the Act. However the existing Committee shall continue to carry on with only routine functioning of the Societ y, till alternate arrangement is made 
by the Registrar 
 
131. The Secretary of the Society shall give 3 clear day’s notice of meetings of the
by the Registrar 
 
131. The Secretary of the Society shall give 3 clear day’s notice of meetings of the 
Committee to all the Members of the Committee which shall state the date, time and place of the meeting and the business to be transacted there at, in consultation with the Chairman of the Society. Where the Secretary of the 
Society fails to issue such a notice and agenda of any meeting of the 
Committee, the Chairman of the Societ y shall issue it. If the Chairman and the 
Secretary of the Society fail to issue a notice and agenda of any meeting of the 
Committee, the concerned Housing Federation,  of which Society is affiliated, on 
its receipt of such information and request may call such a meeting. 
 
132. The Chairman of the Society shall pres ide over all the meetings of the 
Committee, provided that if at any meeting of the Committee, he is absent, 
those Members of the Committee present shall elect one of them to be the
Committee, provided that if at any meeting of the Committee, he is absent, 
those Members of the Committee present shall elect one of them to be the 
Chairman, for that occasion, who shall preside over the meeting. 
 Resignation of office 
bearers of the Society . Resignation of 
Committee Member of the Society . 39 
 133. Every Member of the Committee shall have one vote. However in case of 
equality of votes the chairman of the meeting will have a second or casting 
vote. All decisions shall be taken by majority of vote. 
 
134. On a requisition by 1/3rd of the Members of the committee, the Secretary of the 
Society shall convene a special meeting of the Committee within 7 days of the 
date of receipt of the requisition to discuss the matter mentioned in the 
requisition to discuss the matter mentioned in the requisition.  On the failure of 
the Secretary of the Society to convene such a meeting within the time 
stipulated the procedure laid down under the bye-laws No. 131 shall be
the Secretary of the Society to convene such a meeting within the time 
stipulated the procedure laid down under the bye-laws No. 131 shall be 
followed 
 
135. The Secretary of the Society shall attend every meeting of the committee and 
record its minutes and place the same for confirmation before the next meeting 
of the committee, after the minutes are signed by the Secretary of the Society 
and the chairman of the meeting in the absence of the Secretary the Chairman 
of the Society shall make alternate arrangement for recording minutes of the 
meeting. 
 
136. The Members of the Committee shall be jo intly and severally responsible for all 
the decisions taken by the committee during its term relating to the business of 
the Society.  The Members of the committee shall be jointly and severally 
responsible for all the acts and omissions detrimental to the interest of the 
Society. 
 
137. Subject to the bye - law 111 the Committee shall exercise the powers and
responsible for all the acts and omissions detrimental to the interest of the 
Society. 
 
137. Subject to the bye - law 111 the Committee shall exercise the powers and 
discharge the functions and duties as mentioned hereunder. 
 
Sr. 
no. Items of the powers, functions and duties The bye-law no. under 
which the Power, 
Function or Duty falls 
   
1. To consider acceptance of deposits from Members and 
raising of funds  11 
2. To consider and recommend to the meeting of the general 
body, the rates of contribution 13 (a) and 13 (c)  
3. To consider all matter relating to the creation, investment 
and utilization of the Repairs & maintenance,  Reserve 
Fund and Sinking Fund. 12(i) and (ii) 14 
(a) (b) and (c) 15  
4. To consider and decide the resignations received form 
Member, Associate Members & Nominal Members.      27 to 30 
5. To ensure that nomination and revocations thereof are 
recorded in the minutes of the committee. 32
Member, Associate Members & Nominal Members.      27 to 30 
5. To ensure that nomination and revocations thereof are 
recorded in the minutes of the committee. 32 
6. To take action on the report of the Secretary on inspection 
of the Flats. 46 (b) 
7. To take action on cases of cessation of Membership, 
including associate and nominal Membership 58 
8. To consider and decide the applications for various 
purposes received by the Society 62 
9. To Consider and decide cases of refund of shares and 
interest in the capital/ property of the Society where the 
shares and interest in the capital / property are acquired 
by the Society 63 40 
 10. To fix the rate of insurance premium in respect of 
commercial use of flats. 66 a) (xi)  
11. To fix in respect of every flat the Society's charges on the 
basis of the proportion laid down under the bye-law 69 (a) 66 (b) 
12. To review the position of recovery of the charges due to 
the Society from Members and to initiate action against
basis of the proportion laid down under the bye-law 69 (a) 66 (b) 
12. To review the position of recovery of the charges due to 
the Society from Members and to initiate action against 
defaulted charges of the Society 69 
13. To verify compliance of the provisions relating to charging 
of interest in defaulted charges of the Society 69 
14. To authorise a Member of the Committee to attest deed of 
conveyance, share certificates and any other documents 
to which the seal of the Society is affixed. 72 
15. To issue letters of allotment of flats to those who have 
purchased flats from the Promoter (Builder)  74  
16. To make available papers of the Society for perusal if 
asked for by the Members 23 
17. To ensure holding of every annual meeting of the general 
body are kept on the agenda of the meeting  93 
18. To ensure that all matters required to be considered at an 
annual meeting of the general body are kept on the 
agenda of the meeting 93
body are kept on the agenda of the meeting  93 
18. To ensure that all matters required to be considered at an 
annual meeting of the general body are kept on the 
agenda of the meeting 93 
19. To call a special meeting of the general body when 
required  95 
20. To arrange for election of a new  
Committee prior to the expiry of the period of the existing 
committee 114 
21. To ensure that after elections new committee is duly 
constituted 117 
22. To elect office - bearers of the Society 124 
23. To ensure that a meeting of the committee is held once in 
a month 126 
24. to fill in vacancies of the Committee 127 
25. To consider resignation of a Member of the committee 129 
26. To consider resignation of an office bearer of the Society 130 
27. To obtain securities form the paid employees of the 
Society 146 
28. To approve the audit rectification reports of statutory and 
internal audits and to forward them to the authorities 
concerned  152
Society 146 
28. To approve the audit rectification reports of statutory and 
internal audits and to forward them to the authorities 
concerned  152 
29. To execute deed of conveyance of the land and building / 
buildings thereon. 153 
30. To take steps to maintain the property of the Society in 
good condition and to carry out repairs to it and renewals 
thereof. 154 and 157  
31. To Insure the property of the Society   159 41 
 32. To suggest to the general body meeting the rates of 
penalties for breaches of bye-laws and to issue show 
cause notices  164 
33 To regulate operation of the lift of the Society   166 
34 To suggest to the meeting of the general body the games 
to be allowed to be played in the compound of the Society 167 
 
35 To consider and decide any other matters provided under 
the MCS Act 1960, the MCS Rules 1961 and the Bye-laws 
of the Society,  
but not expressly indicated hereinabove  76 to 83 
36 To regulate parking in the Society.   77 to 83
the MCS Act 1960, the MCS Rules 1961 and the Bye-laws 
of the Society,  
but not expressly indicated hereinabove  76 to 83 
36 To regulate parking in the Society.   77 to 83 
37 To ensure that the Society is affiliated to Housing 
Federation and its subscription is regularly paid.  6 
38 To take the decision on the complaint application in the 
Managing Committee Meeting and inform the concerned 
Member of its decision accordingly.  172 
 
39 To enter into contract with the Architect of the Society.   156 (f) 
40 To scrutinize the tenders, received for construction work 
and to submit the same along with Committee's report to 
the meeting of the General Body and to enter into contract 
with the contractor.  156 (i) 
 
 
138. The Chairman of the Society shall have the power of overall superintendence, 
control and guidance in respect of management of the affairs of the Society 
within the frame-work of the MCS Act 1960. Rule 1961 and the Bye-laws of the
control and guidance in respect of management of the affairs of the Society 
within the frame-work of the MCS Act 1960. Rule 1961 and the Bye-laws of the 
Society.  In case of any emergency, the chairman of the Society may be 
competent to exercise any of the powers of the committee.  However, while 
doing so he shall record the reasons thereof in writing Any decision, so taken by the chairman of the Society shall be got ratified in the next meeting of the 
Committee. 
 
139. The functions of the Secretary of the Society shall be those mentioned  
 below : 
Sr. 
no Items of the Powers, Functions and Duties The Bye-law no. under 
which the Power, 
Function or Duty falls 
1 To issue share certificate to Members within the stipulated 
period and the prescribed manner  9 & 10 
2 To deal with resignations from Members including 
associate and nominal Members  27 to 30 
3 To enter nominations and revocations thereof in the 
Nominations Register.  31
2 To deal with resignations from Members including 
associate and nominal Members  27 to 30 
3 To enter nominations and revocations thereof in the 
Nominations Register.  31 
4 To inspect the property of the Society.   46 (a) 
5 To issue notices regarding repairs to be carried out in flats.  46 (b)(C)  
6 To deal with cases of expulsion of Members.   48 to 53 
7 To deal with cases of cessation of Membership including 
associate and nominal Membership.  54 
8 To deal with the applications for various purposes received 
by the Society.  63 42 
 9 To prepare and issue demand notices/bills for payment to 
the Society's charges.  68 
10 To bring cases of defaults in payment of the Society's 
charges to the notice of the Committee.  69 
11 To issue letter of allotment of flats.   76 (a) 
12 To issue notices and agenda of all meetings of the general 
body. 97 
13 To record the minutes of all the meetings of the general 
body. 107
11 To issue letter of allotment of flats.   76 (a) 
12 To issue notices and agenda of all meetings of the general 
body. 97 
13 To record the minutes of all the meetings of the general 
body. 107 
14 To call the first meeting of the newly constituted committee.  121(b) 
15 To issue notices of all the meetings of the Committee.   131 
16 To attend meetings of the Committee and to record minutes 
thereof 135 
17 To attend meeting accounts books, register and other 
records, unless otherwise decided by the committee.  142 
18 To  finalize account of the Society in the required manner   145 (b) 
19 To produce records of the Society before different authority 
concerned with the working of the Society with the consent 
of the Chairman.  151 
20 to prepare the audit rectification reports in respect of audit 
memos received from the Statutory and internal Auditors.  152 
21 To bring breaches of the Bye-laws by the Members of their 
notices under instructions from the committee and
memos received from the Statutory and internal Auditors.  152 
21 To bring breaches of the Bye-laws by the Members of their 
notices under instructions from the committee and 
Penalties there to.  164 
 
22 To discharge such other functions under the MCS Act 1960 
the MCS Rules 1961 and the Bye-laws of the general body 
meetings, as are not expressly mentioned hereinabove.   
23 To place the complaint application with facts before the 
committee, in the coming meeting.  174 
 
XIII . MAINTENANCE OF A CCOUNT BOOKS AND REGISTERS 
 
140. The Society shall maintain the follo wing books of accounts, records and 
Registers. 
1. The Register of Members in "I" form prescribed under Rule 32 of the MCS 
rules 1961.  
2. The List of Members in 'J' form prescribed under Rule 33 of the MCS rules 
1961. 
3. The Cash Book, 
4. The Genera! Ledger, 
5. The Personal Ledger.  
6. The Sinking Fund Register. 
7. The Audit Rectification Register in 'O' form, prescribed under the MCS 
rules 1961.
1961. 
3. The Cash Book, 
4. The Genera! Ledger, 
5. The Personal Ledger.  
6. The Sinking Fund Register. 
7. The Audit Rectification Register in 'O' form, prescribed under the MCS 
rules 1961. 
8. The Investment Register. 43 
 9. The Nomination Register. 
10. The Society / Members L oan Register/Mortgage Register. 
11. The Minutes Book for the meetings of the Committee of the Society. 
12. The Minutes Book for the meetings of the General Body of the Society. 
13. The Property register and furniture, fixtures and office 
equipment. 
14. The Structural  and Fire Audit Register and Lift Inspection 
Record 
15. The Register of Nominal Members (Tenant occupant) 16. The Register for Active Members
 
 
141. The Society shall maintain separat e files for the following subjects : 
i. Applications for Membership.  
ii. Applications for nominal / Associate Membership 
iii. Letters of resignations of Membership including associate and   
iv. Nominal Membership.
i. Applications for Membership.  
ii. Applications for nominal / Associate Membership 
iii. Letters of resignations of Membership including associate and   
iv. Nominal Membership. 
v. Applications for transfer of shares and/or interest in the   
vi. Capital /property of the Society. 
vii. Cases of expulsion of Members.  
viii. Nominations made by Member s including revocations thereof. 
ix. Separate file for correspondence entered into with each Member. 
x. Correspondence with the Co-Operative Registrar. 
xi. Correspondence on Property Taxes including Non-agricultural taxes. 
xii. Correspondence on common electric supply. 
xiii. Correspondence about Conveyance of the property. 
xiv. All Types of Agreements, with papers connected thereto. 
xv. Approved plans of construction and correspondence thereon. 
xvi. Applications tor allotment of parking spaces. 
xvii. Vouchers, along with the bills rela ting thereto arranged in order of entries 
in the cash book and the journal.
xvi. Applications tor allotment of parking spaces. 
xvii. Vouchers, along with the bills rela ting thereto arranged in order of entries 
in the cash book and the journal. 
xviii. Counterfoils of challans for credi ts of amounts into the bank, arranged in 
order of dates of credits. 
xix. Counterfoils of cheques issued. 
xx. Counterfoils of share certificates. 
xxi. Applications for duplicate share certificates. 
xxii. Application for registration of the Society, the copy of the bye-laws and 
amendments thereto. 
xxiii. A certificate of registration fully framed. 
xxiv. Counterfoils of receipts or carbon c opies of receipts issued by the Society. 
xxv. Counterfoils of bills or carbon copi es of bills for the Society's charges. 
xxvi. Correspondence about loan received and property of the Society 
mortgaged. 
xxvii. Notices and Agenda of the Meetings of the Committee and general body 
of the Society. 
xxviii. Periodical statements of Accounts prepared by the Society.
mortgaged. 
xxvii. Notices and Agenda of the Meetings of the Committee and general body 
of the Society. 
xxviii. Periodical statements of Accounts prepared by the Society. 
xxix. Committee's annual reports on the working of the Society. 
xxx. Audit memos received from the Statutory Auditors, with rectification 
reports thereon. 
xxxi. Audit reports received from Internal Auditors, with rectification reports 
thereon. 
xxxii. Papers pertaining to the election of the Committee. 
xxxiii. Complaint from Members and correspondence thereof. 
 
 Note:  The Society shall also maintain separate files relating to other 
 subjects not expressly indicated above . 
 44 
 142. Unless otherwise decided by the Committee, it shall be the responsibility of the 
Secretary of the Society to maintain and keep uptodate the Account Books, 
Registers and other Records mentioned under the bye-laws Nos. 140 and 141. 
 
143. The Secretary of the Society or the paid employee, authorised by the
Registers and other Records mentioned under the bye-laws Nos. 140 and 141. 
 
143. The Secretary of the Society or the paid employee, authorised by the 
Committee in that behalf, may retain in his personal custody, at the close of 
every day, a sum, not exceeding Rs. 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand only),for 
petty expenses. If due to unavoidable circumstances, the cash in hand has 
exceeded the above limit, the excess cash shall be credited into the bank within 
the next three days by the Secretary or any other person authorised by the 
Committee to keep cash in hand. 
 
144.  All payments in excess of Rs.1500/- (Rupees Fifteen Hundred) shall be 
 made by means of crossed a/c payee's cheques. 
 
145.  
a. Within 45 days of the close of every co-operative year, the Secretary of 
the Society or any other person, authorised by the Committee in that 
behalf, shall finalise the accounts of the preceding co-operative year, 
prepare the Receipts and Payments Statement, the Income and
behalf, shall finalise the accounts of the preceding co-operative year, 
prepare the Receipts and Payments Statement, the Income and 
Expenditure Statement for the said year and the Balance Sheet as at the 
close of the said year in the forms prescribed under Rule 62(i) of MCS 
Rules 1961alongwith the list of Active Members and Non-Active Members 
as at the close of the preceding co- operative year, with amounts to their 
credit in the share capital account and deposits, if any, the schedules of investments, the debtors, the creditors, the furniture, the fixtures and the 
office equipments etc. 
 
b. The Society shall prepare and file Annual Returns as prescribed in the Act 
& the Rules. The Society shall file Annual Returns on or before 30th 
September of every year with the Registrar including the following matters, namely- 
i. Annual Reports of Societies activities.  
ii. Societies Audited Statement of Accounts;
September of every year with the Registrar including the following matters, namely- 
i. Annual Reports of Societies activities.  
ii. Societies Audited Statement of Accounts; 
iii. Plans for surplus disposal as approved by the General Body of the 
Society; 
iv. List of amendments to the Byelaws of the Society, if any; 
v. Declaration regarding date of holding of its General Body Meeting and 
conduct of elections when due; 
vi. Any other information required by the Registrar in pursuance of any of 
the provisions of the Act. 
vii. List of Active and Non-Active Members. 
viii. Every Society shall also file a Return regarding the name of the 
Auditor or Auditing Firm from a Panel Approved by a State 
Government in this behalf, appointed in the General Body Meeting 
together with his written consent with in a period of one month from the 
date of Annual General Body Meeting. 
ix. If the Society fails to intimate and file the Returns as provided by
together with his written consent with in a period of one month from the 
date of Annual General Body Meeting. 
ix. If the Society fails to intimate and file the Returns as provided by 
section 75(2A) and section 79(1B), the Registrar may cause Societies 
accounts to be audited by appointing an Auditor from the panel of Auditors.  
 
146.  Every paid employee, holding any office in the Society and handling cash 
and/or securities of the Society, shall furnish such security, as is provided under 
Rule 107B of the MCS Rules 1961. 45 
 XIV. APPROPRIATIO N OF PROFITS 
 
147.  
a. After providing for the interest upon any loans and deposits and after making 
such other deductions as required under Section 65(1) and 66 of the MCS Act 
1960 and Rule 49A of MCS Rules 1961, twenty five percent (25%) of the net 
profit of all the business carried on by or on account of the Society, shall be 
placed at the credit of the Reserve Fund of the Society.
profit of all the business carried on by or on account of the Society, shall be 
placed at the credit of the Reserve Fund of the Society.  
b. The remaining seventy five percent (75% ) of the net profit of the Society shall 
be utilised as provided under Rule 50, 51, 52, 53 of MCS Rule 1961. 
i. To pay dividend not exceeding 15 percent per annum, upon the paid up 
share capital at such rate as the Committee may recommend and the 
Annual General Body Meeting may appr ove. The dividend on shares shall 
be paid to the registered holders of such shares according to the books of the Society as on the last day of the preceding co-operative year. 
ii. To pay honorarium to office-bearers of the Society not exceeding fifteen 
percent (15%) of the net surplus to reward them for the sacrifice of their 
valuable time for the working of the Society or as decided by the General Body Meeting 
iii. To allocate to a Common Welfare Fund, such part of the profit as the
valuable time for the working of the Society or as decided by the General Body Meeting 
iii. To allocate to a Common Welfare Fund, such part of the profit as the 
Annual Meeting of the General Body may determine, to be utilised in 
furtherance of   
iv. the objects specified in the bye-law No. 5(d). 
v. The balance, if any, shall be carried fo rward or dealt with in such manner as 
the Annual General Body Meeting, on the recommendations of the 
Committee, may determine. 
XV.  TO WRITE OFF OF  IRRECOVERABLE DUES. 
 
148. Subject to the bye-law no. 149, the Society may write off Society's charges due 
from the Members, the expenses incurred on recovery thereof and the 
accumulated losses, which are certified as irrecoverable by the Statutory 
Auditor, appointed under section 81 of the Act. 
 
149. The amounts mentioned in the bye-law no. 148 shall not be written off unless: 
a. the meeting of the General Body of the Society has given due sanction for 
writing off the amounts;
149. The amounts mentioned in the bye-law no. 148 shall not be written off unless: 
a. the meeting of the General Body of the Society has given due sanction for 
writing off the amounts; 
b. the approval of the financing agency to the writing off of the amounts, if the 
Society is indebted to it. 
c. the approval of the Registering Authority is obtained.  
Provided that , if the Society is affiliated to the District Central Co-
operative Bank or any other financing agency but is not indebted to it the 
permission of the Bank or the financing agency is not necessary,  
Provided further that , if the Society is classified as A or B at the last 
Audit, no such permission of the Bank or the financing agency or the 
Registering Authority is necessary, if there is sufficient balance in the Bad 
Debt Fund, specially created for the purpose to cover the amount 
proposed to be written off. 
XVI. AUDIT OF ACCO UNTS OF THE SOCIETY 
 46 
 150. Appointment of Auditor.
Debt Fund, specially created for the purpose to cover the amount 
proposed to be written off. 
XVI. AUDIT OF ACCO UNTS OF THE SOCIETY 
 46 
 150. Appointment of Auditor. 
a. The Society shall appoint the Statutory Auditor in its General Body 
Meeting from the panel of Auditors approved by State Govt. and same 
Statutory Auditor shall not be appointed for more than two consecutive 
years. The Statutory Auditor shall s ubmit his Audit Report as provided in 
section 81 of the Act. 
b. It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to get the Accounts Audited 
within a period of six months from the closure of financial year and in any case before issuance of Notice of the holding of the Annual General Body Meeting. 
c. The Remuneration of Auditors so appointed shall be decided by the 
General Body Meeting of the Society. 
d. The Society may, if it considers it necessary, appoint an internal Auditor, 
to audit the accounts of the Society, at the Annual General Body Meeting
General Body Meeting of the Society. 
d. The Society may, if it considers it necessary, appoint an internal Auditor, 
to audit the accounts of the Society, at the Annual General Body Meeting 
 
151. The Secretary of the Society shall produce or cause to be produced all the 
books, registers, records before the Internal Auditor and the Statutory Auditor, 
in the office of the Society or where the records are normally kept and furnish 
such information as may be required by him for the conduct of the Audit of the Accounts of the Society. 
. 
152.  
a. On receipt of the audit reports from the Statutory and Internal Auditors, the 
Secretary of the Society shall prepare draft audit rectification reports on the 
objections raised and suggestions made, in the Audit rectification Report in 
form '0' prescribed under Rule 73 of the MCS Rules 1961 and place the same 
before the meeting of the Committee, held next after the date of the receipt of
form '0' prescribed under Rule 73 of the MCS Rules 1961 and place the same 
before the meeting of the Committee, held next after the date of the receipt of 
the audit reports, for its approval. The Audit Rectification shall be done by the 
Committee within three months from the date of audit report. The committee shall submit Audit Rectification Report to the Registrar and the Annual General Body Meeting of the Society.   
b. If the Committee of the Society fails to submit Audit Rectification Report to the 
Registrar and the Annual General Body Meeting, all the Members of the 
Committee shall be deemed to have committed an Offence under section 146 
of the Act and shall be liable for Penalty under section 147 of the Act.   
 
XVII.  CONVEYANCE / DEEM ED CONVEYANCE OF THE 
PROPERTY, AND RE DEVELOPMENT AND 
REPAIRS/MAINTAINCE OF THE PROPERTY 
153.  
a. The committee shall with the approval of General Body, take necessary
XVII.  CONVEYANCE / DEEM ED CONVEYANCE OF THE 
PROPERTY, AND RE DEVELOPMENT AND 
REPAIRS/MAINTAINCE OF THE PROPERTY 
153.  
a. The committee shall with the approval of General Body, take necessary 
steps for Conveyance/Deemed Conveyance of the land/building/buildings in 
favour of the Society. 
b. The Committee shall examine, in consultation with the Advocate of the 
Society, the Deed of the Conveyance/Deemed Conveyance of the land and the building/buildings thereon and place the same before the Meeting of the General Body of the Society for its approval. 
c. On approval of the Draft Deed by the General Body Meeting of the Society, 
the Committee shall execute it as per law. 47 
 154. It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to maintain the property of the 
Society in good condition at all times and to redevelop the Society buildings/property, if necessary, as per Gove rnment directives from time to time  
and as per prevailing laws.  
155.
Society in good condition at all times and to redevelop the Society buildings/property, if necessary, as per Gove rnment directives from time to time  
and as per prevailing laws.  
155.  
a. The Secretary of the Society, on receipt of any complaints about the 
maintenance of the property of the Society from any Members of the Society 
or on his own motion, shall inspect the property of the Society(if necessary 
along with technical expert appointed for the purpose), from time to time and 
make the report to the Committee, stating the need of the repairs, if any, 
considered necessary. The Committee shall consider the report made by the Secretary of the Society and decide as to which of the repairs should be carried out. 
b. the Members of the Society shall allow access and cooperate  in the 
inspection of the premises for repairs & maintenance  
156.  
a. The Committee shall be competent to incur expenditure on the repairs and
inspection of the premises for repairs & maintenance  
156.  
a. The Committee shall be competent to incur expenditure on the repairs and 
maintenance of the Society's property once in a financial year,  the onetime 
expenditure does not exceed : 
Upto 25 Members   Rs. 25.000/- 26 to 50 Members   Rs. 50,000/- 
51 and above Upto  Rs. 1,00,000/- 
b. If one time expenditure on repairs and maintenance of the Society's property 
exceeds the limit as mentioned under bye-law No. 156(a) prior sanction of the 
meeting of the General Body of the Society shall be necessary. 
c. The meeting of the General Body of the Society shall decide : 
The limit upto which the expenditure on repairs and maintenance of the
c. The meeting of the General Body of the Society shall decide : 
The limit upto which the expenditure on repairs and maintenance of the 
property of the Society could be incurred by the Committee without calling for tenders for the work. In respect of the work, the cost of which exceeds the limit, so fixed, the Committee shall follow the procedure of inviting tenders, placing them before the General Body Meeting for approval and entering into contract with the Architect (if appointed) and the Contractor. 
d. The appointment of An Architect : In respect of redevelopment of Society 
buildings the procedure to be followed as per Government Resolutions (as 
amended from time to time) and provisions in Architect Act 1972. 
e. If no appointment of an Architect is made by the  Promoter ,the meeting of the 
General Body of the Society shall appoint an Architect on such terms and 
conditions as it deems fit and as per the provisions of Architect Act 1972.
General Body of the Society shall appoint an Architect on such terms and 
conditions as it deems fit and as per the provisions of Architect Act 1972. 
f. The Committee shall enter into the contract with the Architect, on the basis of 
the terms and conditions approved at the meeting of the General Body of the Society in that behalf as per the provisions of Architect Act 1972. 
g. The Architect shall prepare the plans and estimate and feasibility report of the 
construction of the building/buildings in consultation with the committee, 
which shall place the same before the meeting of the General Body of the 
Society. The Architect shall submit ,the  plans as per the  feasibility report of 48 
 the the of the construction of the building/buildings, approved by the meeting 
of the General Body of the Society to the Local Authority for sanction as per finally approved tenders. 
h. As per procedure mentioned in redevelopment G.R. dated 03-01-2009  the
of the General Body of the Society to the Local Authority for sanction as per finally approved tenders. 
h. As per procedure mentioned in redevelopment G.R. dated 03-01-2009  the 
Committee shall invite tenders in consultation with the Architect appointed  by  
Society. 
i. The Secretary shall open the tenders received by him in the meeting of the 
Committee, which shall scrutinize them and prepare its report along with the 
draft of the terms and conditions, in consultation with the Architect of the Society and place the same before the meeting of the General Body for its decision. After the approval of the General Body, the Committee shall then 
enter into the contract with the Contractor. 
j. The Contract deeds, entered into with the Architect of the Society and the 
Contractor, shall provide a stipulation for settlement of the disputes arising out 
of execution of the Contracts shall be referred to sole Arbitrator appointed by 
the Society.
Contractor, shall provide a stipulation for settlement of the disputes arising out 
of execution of the Contracts shall be referred to sole Arbitrator appointed by 
the Society. 
157. Subject to the provisions of the bye-law no. 156 , the Committee shall proceed 
to carry out the construction, repairs and maintenance of the property of the Society and Redevelopment of the Society buildings as per Govt Directives from time to time It shall be the responsibility of the Committee till the 
completion of the work and to see that the repairs and redevelopment of 
Society buildings are carried out as per the provisions of the contract executed 
by the Society. 
158. The following repairs and maintenance of the property of the Society shall be 
carried out by the Society at its costs: 
a. ( i ) All internal roads, (ii) Compound wa lls, (iii) External water pipe lines, (iv)
carried out by the Society at its costs: 
a. ( i ) All internal roads, (ii) Compound wa lls, (iii) External water pipe lines, (iv) 
Water pumps,(v) Water storage tanks, (vi) Drainage lines, (vii) Septic tanks, (viii) Stair cases, (ix) Terrace and parapet walls, (x) Structural repairs of roofs of all flats, (xi) Stair-case lights, (xii) Street lights, (xiii) External walls of the 
building/ buildings, (xiv) All leakages of water including leakages due to rain 
water, and leakages due to external common pipe line and drainage line, 
(xv) Electric lines upto main switches in the flats (xvi) Lifts, (xvii) The 
damaged ceiling and plaster thereon in the top floor flats, on account of the 
leakage of the rain water through the terrace.(xviii) Generators, (xvix) 
Security Appliances (CCTV, Intercom, Group Mobile, Mass Data Sharing 
Devices, Siren Bell) (xx) Rain Water Harvesting,(xxi) Sewerage, Storm water 
Drain & Water Treatment Plant (xxii) Common areas not specifically allotted
Devices, Siren Bell) (xx) Rain Water Harvesting,(xxi) Sewerage, Storm water 
Drain & Water Treatment Plant (xxii) Common areas not specifically allotted 
,Swimming Pool, Gym, Sauna Bath, Co ffee House (xxiii) Common Parking 
Space (xxiv) Solar and alternate energy devices. (xxv) Garden (xxvi) 
Community hall (xxvii) Wi-fi setup of the Society 
b. All the repairs, not covered by the by e-law No. 158(a) shall be carried out by 
the Members at their cost. The expenditure of the internal leakage due to toilet, sink etc. should be borne by concerned flat holders, with the intimation 
to the Society. 
159.  
a. The Society shall insure its building/s necessarily against risk of natural 
calamities, fire, flood, earthquake,  third party liability and like 49 
 b. The managing Committee of each and every Housing Society shall chalk
calamities, fire, flood, earthquake,  third party liability and like 49 
 b. The managing Committee of each and every Housing Society shall chalk 
out Emergency Planning Scheme, which include below mentioned details in respect of the Society and the surrounding area.  (1) Probability of danger and analysis thereof. (2) Evaluation of risk in pursuance disaster 
management. (3) Response Machinery eg. Police/Fire Brigade/Municipal 
council etc.(4) Important Telephone Numbers. 
i. Emergency Telephone Numbers of each and every Member. 
ii. Telephone Numbers of the officers of the Government Machinery 
concerned with the emergency management. The management 
committee shall hold discussion with all the Members in the General 
Body Meeting over the plan prepar ed as aforesaid and shall inform 
about the same to the Members. The plan such prepared shall be displayed on the Notice Board of the Society, and the same shall be 
made up-to-date from time to time as per the requirement.
about the same to the Members. The plan such prepared shall be displayed on the Notice Board of the Society, and the same shall be 
made up-to-date from time to time as per the requirement. 
iii. As per the Child Labour Act 1986,it is prohibited to employ child 
labours for house hold and other works. As per the provisions of the 
said Act, if any person/Member is found to have employed child labour 
for household work and other work then a punishment of 
imprisonment of one year and a fine up to Rs. 20,000/- or both can be 
awarded to him. The managing committee of the Society shall display the said legal provision on the notice board and shall create awareness in the minds ofall the Members for eradication of the said 
evil, child labour practice. 
a. The office bearers of the Society shall insure that no Member of 
the Society/person /contractors has employed child labour and 
shall make arrangement of informing the Labour Commissioner
a. The office bearers of the Society shall insure that no Member of 
the Society/person /contractors has employed child labour and 
shall make arrangement of informing the Labour Commissioner 
Office that the Society is totall y free from child labour practice. 
b. If any Member/ person /contractors is found to have employed 
child labour, the managing committee shall inform immediately to the office of the Labour Commissioner or the nearest Police station or the concerned voluntary  organizations and shall inform to that effect in writing to the office of Labour Commissioner.  
iv. The managing committee of the Society shall take necessary 
precaution to see that no injustice is done to any widow in the cooperative housing Society after the death of a Member before transferring the flat in her name. In such cases Society shall verify the 
nomination form duly submitted by the deceased Member or 
succession certificate /heirship certificate obtained from Civil Court
nomination form duly submitted by the deceased Member or 
succession certificate /heirship certificate obtained from Civil Court 
under the Indian Succession Act 1925 or Will of the deceased 
Member duly probated by the Civil Court through the executor of the 
will. After verifying and taking legal guidance Society then only can 
take appropriate action within the time limit to avoid the further legal 
complications. This procedure can be followed in all the cases after the death of a Society Member. 
160. No Member of the Society shall destroy, deface or cut down any trees in the 
compound of the Society. Any action, any contravention of the above provision 
may render the Member concerned liable for action. 
XVIII.  OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 
161.  50 
 a. It shall be open to the Society, having regard to the importance of the
may render the Member concerned liable for action. 
XVIII.  OTHER MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS 
161.  50 
 a. It shall be open to the Society, having regard to the importance of the 
matter and the specific provision made thereof under the MCS Act1960, the MCS Rules1961 and the Bye-laws of the Society, to give notice of every General body meeting and communicate the resolution 
or the decision, to the Members of the Society on their last known 
addresses, by one of the following modes: 
i. Hand delivery, 
ii. Dispatch through post office or by registered post, with or 
without acknowledgement due, or by email. 
b. A copy of such notice/communication of the decision/resolution shall 
be displayed on the notice board of the Society and thereupon, the notice shall be deemed to have been duly given or communication shall be deemed to have been duly made and the complaints received 
or made that the notice/communication was not received or was not
or made that the notice/communication was not received or was not 
sent to the correct address shall not affect the validity of the notice or 
the communication. 
162. The accounting year of the Society shall be that commencing on 1st April and 
ending on the 31st March of the subsequent year. 
163. The Society shall have its Notice Board, fixed at a conspicuous part of the 
building/s, on which shall be exhibited all notices and communications referred to in the bye-law No.161 (a), the Statement of Accounts, the Annual Reports of the Committee and other matters, of which Notices are required to be given to 
all the Members of the Society under the MCS Act1960 and, the MCS 
Rules1961 and the Bye-laws of the Society. If there is more than one building, 
the similar Notice Board shall be fixed in all the buildings. 
164.  
a. The meeting of the General Body of the Society may prescribe penalties for 
different breaches of the Bye-laws of the Society. The Secretary of the
164.  
a. The meeting of the General Body of the Society may prescribe penalties for 
different breaches of the Bye-laws of the Society. The Secretary of the 
Society, under instructions from the Committee, shall bring to the notice of the Member concerned, the breach/breaches of the bye-law/bye-laws committed by him. If the Member persists in continuing the breach/breaches, the Committee shall give the notice to the Member to show cause as why the penalty should not be inflicted on him for breach/breaches of the byelaw/bye-laws. The General Body Meeting, after considering the Say of the Member and after giving him hearing, may levy penalty to the extent of maximum consolidated penalty not exceeding Rs.5,000/- in any one financial year. 
b. Save except other provision in the Act, the A.G.M / Special G.B.M. can 
penalize a Member for committing breaches in his Responsibilities. Such 
penalty should be reasonable and equal to all such erring Members.
penalize a Member for committing breaches in his Responsibilities. Such 
penalty should be reasonable and equal to all such erring Members. 
A.G.M./Special G.B.M. is empowered to frame the penalty amount. The 
managing committee shall recover such penalties with proper care.  
165. No bye-law shall be made, altered or abrogated unless (i) a proposal to do so 
has been communicated to all Members 14 days before the Meeting of the General Body of the Society, at which it is proposed to be considered, and, (ii) the resolution is passed by not less than 2/3rd majority of the Members present 
and voting at the meeting of the General Body of the Society, and (iii) the 
making, alteration or abrogation is Approved and Registered by the Registering 
Authority. 51 
 166. The Committee shall regulate the operation of the lifts, solar water heaters 
taking into consideration the convenience of the majority of the Members of the Society.
Authority. 51 
 166. The Committee shall regulate the operation of the lifts, solar water heaters 
taking into consideration the convenience of the majority of the Members of the Society. 
167. The meeting of the General Body of the Society may, after taking into 
consideration the location of the building or buildings of the Society and their 
surroundings and the open space available for playing games by the Members 
of the Society and their children, allow such games to be played during such 
hours as may be fixed by the meeting of the General Body of the Society and 
subject to such restrictions, charges and penalties as it may impose. 
168. The Society shall not let out or give on leave and license basis or permit any 
subletting, any open space available under the Staircases, Terraces/Open ground/Lawns/Club house/  Common Hall etc. to any person whether the Member of the Society or not, for any purpose whatsoever.
a. All open /common area meant for use of all Members for eg. staircase, steps, 
landing areas, parking spaces, lift, corr idor, and such other spaces, cannot be 
occupied  by any Member for his own use. The use of such areas shall be 
restricted to the cause for which these are meant. Any Member found to be 
violating the above condition by encroachment shall have to vacate the 
encroachment and further he/she shall  pay an amount equal to five times the 
monthly maintenance charges per month for the period for which he/she has encroached such spaces and further Members must not carry out any constructions, structural changes over and above the sanctioned plan without 
prior permission of the Society and Concerned Municipal Authorities / 
Competent Authorities. 
Also Members must use the flat /unit for purpose it was meant/sanctioned. Any Member violating the above directives shall pay an amount equal to five
Competent Authorities. 
Also Members must use the flat /unit for purpose it was meant/sanctioned. Any Member violating the above directives shall pay an amount equal to five 
times the monthly maintenance charges, per month with retrospective effect for the period for which such violation is existed. 
169. Notwithstanding the provisions under the bye-law no. 168, the Committee 
may allow temporary use of the terrace or available open space of the 
Society's building by any Member, on his written application, for any function, 
subject to such restrictions and on payment of such charges to the Society as 
the meeting of the General Body of the Society may decide. The committee 
may, with the previous permission of the Local Authority, if needed, allow 
exhibition of advertisement boards on any part of the building including
may, with the previous permission of the Local Authority, if needed, allow 
exhibition of advertisement boards on any part of the building including 
terrace, on such terms and conditions as are approved by the General Body Meeting any Member /Members want to install a solar energy water heating systems or solar energy electrical system, then space shall be made available to such Member/Members on the terrace as per availability. 
 The said systems may include 
(i) Solar collector stand, hot water tank, cold water tank, stand for the 
tank and hot water  pipeline etc, 
(ii) Solar Panels, battery, inverter charging controller, cabling etc. for solar 
energy / electricity / photo voltai c devices / renewable energy devices 
If any application requesting to provide space for solar / renewable 
energy / energy efficiency devices is received, then it shall be 52 
 binding on the Society to allocate space thereof as per the 
availability of the space in the Society’s premises.
energy / energy efficiency devices is received, then it shall be 52 
 binding on the Society to allocate space thereof as per the 
availability of the space in the Society’s premises. 
170. The Member of the Society, requiring copies of the documents shall pay 
copying fees and other charges at the rates mentioned against them : 
 
1. Certified copy of the Approved Bye-laws of the Society Rs5/- per page 
2. Amendment of the Bye-laws of the Society Rs 5/- per page 
3. Last Audited Balance Sheet of the Society Rs 10/- per page 
4. Application for Membership of the Society Rs.25/- 
5. Second and Subsequent Nomination by the Member of 
the Society Rs100/- 
 
6. Share Certificate of the Society (Duplicate)  Rs 100/- 
7. List of Members of the Society Rs 10/- per page 
8. Correspondence / Documents (related to Member) Rs 10/- per page 
9. Minutes of the General Body Meetings and Committee 
Meetings Rs10/- per page 
10. Indemnity Bond Rs20/-
8. Correspondence / Documents (related to Member) Rs 10/- per page 
9. Minutes of the General Body Meetings and Committee 
Meetings Rs10/- per page 
10. Indemnity Bond Rs20/- 
11. Copy of Annual Returns and Periodicals Rs 10/- per page 
12. List of Active Members Rs5/- per page 
13. Any other document as per section 32 of the Act Rs5/- per page 
 
XIX.     REDRESSAL OF MEMBERS COMPLAINTS 
 
171. Member/Members shall submit their complaint application to any of the 
Office bearers of the Society, in writing, giving thereby the details of the complaint. 
172. After receipt of such, complaint application, the committee shall take decision 
thereof, in the immediate next Managing Committee meeting. Such decision 
shall be communicated to the concerned Member, within 15 days thereafter. 
173. If the Member/Members are not satisfied by the decision of the Committee, 
or does not receive any communication from the committee within 15 days,
173. If the Member/Members are not satisfied by the decision of the Committee, 
or does not receive any communication from the committee within 15 days, 
the complainant Member may approach below mentioned Competent Authority. 
a. THE REGISTRAR 
i. Complaints to be made to the Registrar. Matters pertaining to following 
issues :- 
ii. Registration of Society on Misrepresentation, 
iii. Non-issuance of the Share Certificates, 
iv. Refusal of Membership, 53 
 v. Non registration of Nomination by the Society, 
vi. Non Occupancy charges, 
vii. Demand of excess premium for transfers, 
viii. Non supply of the copies of record and documents, 
ix. Tampering, suppression and destruction of the records of the Society, 
x. Non acceptance of the cheques or any other correspondence by the 
committee. 
xi. Non maintenance or incomplete maintenance of records and books of the 
Society, 
xii. Non preparation of the annual accounts/reports, within the prescribed 
period,
committee. 
xi. Non maintenance or incomplete maintenance of records and books of the 
Society, 
xii. Non preparation of the annual accounts/reports, within the prescribed 
period, 
xiii. Misappropriation/ Misapplication of the Funds of the Society, 
xiv. Defaulter/Disqualified Member on the committee, 
xv. Investment of Funds without prior permission of G.B.M.  
xvi. Reconciliation of Accounts, 
xvii. Audit, Audit Rectification reports. 
xviii. Non conducting of election before expiry of the term of the Committee as 
per law. 
xix. Rejection of Nomination, 
xx. Non convening of General Body meetings within prescribed period on or 
before 30th September of each year 
xxi. Non calling of Managing Committee meeting as prescribed in Bye-laws, 
xxii. Resignation by the Committee, 
xxiii. Any other like matters which falls within jurisdiction of the Registrar. 
xxiv. Non filling of Returns and statements. 
xxv. Classification as Active and Non-Active Members 
 
b. CO-OPERATIVE COURT
xxiv. Non filling of Returns and statements. 
xxv. Classification as Active and Non-Active Members 
 
b. CO-OPERATIVE COURT 
Disputes between the Members and/or the Members and Society, which 
falls under Section 91 of the MCS Act 1960 such as:- 
Disputes pertaining to:- 
i. Resolutions of the Managing Committee and General Body. 
ii. The elections of the Managing Committee, except the Rejection of   
Nominations, as provided under section 152-A of the MCS Act 1960. 
iii. Repairs, including Major Repairs, Internal Repairs, Leakages, 
iv. Parking, 
v. Allotment of Flats/Plots, 
vi. Escalation of Construction Cost, 
vii. Appointment of Developer/Contractor, Architect, 
viii. Unequal water-supply, 
ix. Excess recovery of dues from the Members, 54 
 x. Any other, like, disputes which fall within jurisdiction of the Co-operative 
Court. 
c. CIVIL COURT 
Disputes pertaining to :- 
i. Noncompliance of the terms and conditions of the Agreement, by and
Court. 
c. CIVIL COURT 
Disputes pertaining to :- 
i. Noncompliance of the terms and conditions of the Agreement, by and 
between the Builder/developer, (specific performance) 
ii. Substandard Constructions, 
iii. Conveyance Deed in favour of the Society, 
iv. Escalation of construction cost, 
v. Any other, like, disputes which fall wi thin jurisdiction of the Civil Court. 
 
d. MUNICIPAL CORPORATION/LOCAL AUTHORITY 
Matters pertaining to:- 
i. Unauthorized constructions/ additions/alterations, made by 
builder/Member/ occupant of the flat, 
ii. Inadequate Water supply to the Society and Members.  
iii. Change of use by the Members/occupants, 
iv. Building's structural problems. 
v. Any other, like, matters which fall within jurisdiction of the Corporation/ 
local authority for eg. Property tax, streetlights, garbage, and other civil 
amenities etc. 
 
e. POLICE 
Matters pertaining to :- 
i. Nuisance carried by the Unauthorised user of the Flat / Shop / Parking
amenities etc. 
 
e. POLICE 
Matters pertaining to :- 
i. Nuisance carried by the Unauthorised user of the Flat / Shop / Parking 
slot / Open space in the Society, by the Members, builder, occupants or 
any other persons, 
ii. Threatening / Assault by or to the Members of the Society and official 
body. 
iii. Any other like matters which fall within jurisdiction of the Police. 
 
f. GENERAL BODY MEETING  
 Matters pertaining to :- 
i. Non maintenance of the property of the Society by the Managing 
Committee. 
ii. Non display of Board of the name of the Society, 
iii. Levy of excess Fine, by the Managing Committee for act of the Member 
which is in violation of the Bye-laws. 
iv. Not allowing the authenticated use of the available open spaces of the 
Society, by the Managing Committee. 
v. Non Insuring the property of the Society, by the Managing Committee, 
vi. Appointment of Architect, 
vii. All other like matters which fall within jurisdiction of the General Body. 55
v. Non Insuring the property of the Society, by the Managing Committee, 
vi. Appointment of Architect, 
vii. All other like matters which fall within jurisdiction of the General Body. 55 
 Complaints made by the Member Societies of the federation 
g. FEDERATION  -DISTRICT / STATE 
Matters pertaining to :- 
i. Not allowing of the entry to the Secretary of the Society, by the Member. 
ii. Non acceptance of any communication by the Member/ Managing 
Committee. 
iii. Convening Special General Body Meeting provided under the Bye-law 
no. 95 and Managing Committee meeting provided under Bye-law no. 131. As per the directions given by concern Dist/Asst Registrars 
iv. All other like matters as per the Byelaws provision of the federation.  
 
XX - Regarding redevelopm ent of buildings the 
Co-operative Housing Societies 
174.  
a. Redevelopments of the Property / Building of the Society including 
vacant spaces shall be done strictly in accordance and confirmation
Co-operative Housing Societies 
174.  
a. Redevelopments of the Property / Building of the Society including 
vacant spaces shall be done strictly in accordance and confirmation 
with the Directions issued by the Government of Maharashtra vide 
Government Resolution no. CHS 2007/M.No. 554/14-S dated 03 
January 2009, under section 79{A} of the Maharashtra Cooperative 
Societies Act 1960 (as amended from time to time). 
b. If the development Agreement is not executed with the developer in 
that case, the Society after cancelling the same resolution, the Society 
may appoint a new developer from the short list of approved 
developer, and if it is not possible, fresh procedure can be initiated. 
The Representative of the Registrar must be invited for the aforesaid 
General Body Meeting and his attendance is compulsory. 
c. In case of increase of membership on account of redevelopment the 
Society shall increase the Authorised Share Capital and amend the
General Body Meeting and his attendance is compulsory. 
c. In case of increase of membership on account of redevelopment the 
Society shall increase the Authorised Share Capital and amend the 
bye laws accordingly and the list of new members be submitted to the 
Registrar for appropriate approvals 
 
 
 
  56 
 INDEX OF LIST OF APPENDIX  WITH HOUSING  SOCIETIES  BYE LAWS 
APPENDIX  ­ 1 
The form of application  for Membership  of the Society by a Nominee/  Heir, who is a minor, through 
his Guardian/  Legal Representative  
APPENDIX  – 2 
The Form of application  for membership  of the Society by an individual  
APPENDIX  ­3 
A Form of undertaking  to be furnished  by the Prospective  Member to use the flat for the purpose 
for which it is purchased.  
FORM NO. 4 
A     Form of undertaking  to be furnished  by the person, on whom the prospective  Non Earning 
Member is dependent  for discharge  of liabilities to the society. 
APPENDIX ­ 5
FORM NO. 4 
A     Form of undertaking  to be furnished  by the person, on whom the prospective  Non Earning 
Member is dependent  for discharge  of liabilities to the society. 
APPENDIX ­ 5 
The Form of application  for Associate  Membership  by an Individual,  Who desires to hold shares 
jointly with Member , who is already admitted  to membership  of the Society 
APPENDIX  6 
The Form of application  for Associate  Membership  by a Firm, or a Company  or any other Body 
Corporate  with the person already admitted  to membership  of the Society. 
APPENDIX  10A 
No Objection  Certificate  and Undertaking  from the Original    Member to be submitted  by the 
Associate  Member intending  to  be a Member of the Managing  Committee  of the Society 
APPENDIX  11 
The Form of application  for Nominal Membership  by the sub‐lettee the  Licensee or the Caretaker  
or Occupant  
APPENDIX ­12 
Form of Letter of Allotment  of the flat to the member of the society 
APPENDIX  ­ 13
or Occupant  
APPENDIX ­12 
Form of Letter of Allotment  of the flat to the member of the society 
APPENDIX  ­ 13 
The Form of Notice of Resignation  of Membership  of the society by a member 
APPENDIX  14 
FORM OF NOMINATION  TO BE FURNISHED  IN TRIPLICATE  
APPENDIX  15 
The Form of application  for Membership  by the Nominee/Nominees  
APPENDIX ­16 
The Form of Notice, inviting claims or objections  to  the transfer of the shares and the interest of 
the Deceased  Member in the Capital/ Property of the society. 
APPENDIX ­18 
FORM OF INDEMNITY  BOND, 
APPENDIX ­19 
FORM OF INDEMNITY  BOND 
APPENDIX  ­20 (2) 
A form of the letter of consent of the proposed  Transferee  for the transfer of the shares and 
interest of the member (Transferor)  to him ( Transferee).  
APPENDIX  ­ 20 (I) 
A form of Notice of, intention  of a member to transfer his shares and Interest in the capita! 
/property  of the Society. 
APPENDIX  NO. 21
APPENDIX  ­ 20 (I) 
A form of Notice of, intention  of a member to transfer his shares and Interest in the capita! 
/property  of the Society. 
APPENDIX  NO. 21 
Form of application  for transfer of shares and interest in the capital/ property of the society by the 
transferor  (being an individual)  
APPENDIX  NO.22 
57 
 Form of application  for transfer of shares and interest in the capital/ property of the society by the 
transferor.  (Being a Corporate  Body) 
FORM NO. 23 
Form of application  for membership  of the society by the Proposed  transferee.  [being an individual]  
APPENDIX  NO. 24 
Form of application  for membership  of the society by the proposed  transferee  (Being a Body 
Corporate)  
APPENDIX ­25(1) 
A form of undertaking  about the registration  of the transfer of a flat under Section 269 AB of the 
Income ‐ Tax Act. 
APPENDIX  25(2) 
Form of Undertaking  about the registration  of the acquisition  of a flat under section 269 AB of the 
Income‐Tax Act.)
Income ‐ Tax Act. 
APPENDIX  25(2) 
Form of Undertaking  about the registration  of the acquisition  of a flat under section 269 AB of the 
Income‐Tax Act.) 
APPENDIX  ­26 
A form of intimation  by the society to the transferee  about exercise of rights of membership  by 
him. 
APPENDIX  27 
Form of application  for permission  to hold more than one flat. 
APPENDIX  28 
Form for filing Grievance  by Member with the Registering  Authority  
 
   58 
 APPENDIX - 1 
[Under the Bye-law No. 17(b)] 
The form of application for Membership of the Society by a Nominee/ Heir, who is a minor, 
through his Guardian/ Legal Representative 
 
To,  The Secretary  … ….. …… …. …… ….. Co-operative Housing Society Ltd.  … ….. …… …. …… ….. … ….. …… …. …… ….. … ….. …… …. …… …..  
Sir,  
 
Shri/ Shrimati/ Messers …… …….. ……….. …….. who was the member of the… .. ….. …… …….. …….. 
Co-operative Housing Society Ltd., having address at ………. ……… ……… …………. holding ten
Sir,  
 
Shri/ Shrimati/ Messers …… …….. ……….. …….. who was the member of the… .. ….. …… …….. …….. 
Co-operative Housing Society Ltd., having address at ………. ……… ……… …………. holding ten 
shares of Rs. Fifty each and the Flat No ……… ……… died on His/her death certificate is enclosed. 
He/She had nominated Shri/Shrimati ………. ……… who is minor/ He had not made nomination. His/ 
Her heir Shri/ Shrimati ………. …………  is a minor.  I, Shri/Shrimati …………. ………. …………. being his/ her natural guardian/ guardian appointed by the 
deceased member/ legal representative hereby make an application on behalf of the said minor for 
membership of the …………. ………. …………. Co-oper ative Housing Society Ltd., having address 
at…………. ………. ………….  …………. ………. ………….  and for transfer of shares and interest of 
the deceased member in the capital/ property of t he society to me on behalf of the minor nominee/ heir 
as provided under Rule 20 of the Maharashtra Co- operative Society Rules, 1961. The share certificate
as provided under Rule 20 of the Maharashtra Co- operative Society Rules, 1961. The share certificate 
held by the deceased member is enclosed.  
An entrance fee of Rs. 100/- is sent herewith.  
The particulars of the plot/ flat / house in the area of operation of  the society owned by the minor 
nominee heir or any of the membership of the minor 's family or the pers on dependent on the minor are 
given below: -  
Sr 
no.  Name of the minor nominee or heir 
of his/her family member or the person dependent on the minor.     Particulars regarding plot/flat/ 
house owned by the minor nominee/heir or any of the members of the minor's family or the person dependent on the minor   Place where  
plot/flat/house situated   
1  2  3  4  
    
 
 My particulars for the purpose of consideration of this application are as under:   Age    :- …… …… …. …… ….  
Occupation   :- … … … …. …… …….   
Office Address  :- …… …… …. …… ….  
Monthly Income  :- …… …… …. …… ….
Occupation   :- … … … …. …… …….   
Office Address  :- …… …… …. …… ….  
Monthly Income  :- …… …… …. …… ….  
I undertake to discharge all the present and future liabilities to the societ y on behalf of the minor.  
I hereby declare that there is no plot/ flat/ house in t he area of operation of the so ciety, of the ownership 
of said minor person or his family member or the person dependent on him.  As I have no independent 
source of income, I enclose herewith undertaking from the person on whom I am dependent in the 
prescribed form, to the effect that he will discharge all the present and future liability to society on my 
behalf.  I enclose the undertaking in the prescribed form (App endix - 3) to use the flat  on behalf of the minor for 
the purpose for which it was held/ acquired by the dec eased member and  that any change of user will 
be made with prior approval of the society.
the purpose for which it was held/ acquired by the dec eased member and  that any change of user will 
be made with prior approval of the society.  
I enclose herewith an undertaking in prescribed form regarding sale of plot/ flat/ house of the minor 
person or his family member of the person dependent on the minor person.  
I also enclose herewith the undertaking in the prescr ibed form on behalf of the minor about registration 59 
 of the transfer of the flat to the minor's name thr ough me under Section 269 AB of the Income - Tax Act 
(Appendix - 26. ) I have gone through the registered bye-laws of the so ciety and undertake to abide by the same with any 
modification the Registering Au thority may make in them.  
I undertake to discharge all outstanding liabilities  against the deceased member and also pay the 
charges of the society in future on behalf of the minor.  
I also hereby undertake to convey the property on t he "attainment of age of majority" by the minor on
charges of the society in future on behalf of the minor.  
I also hereby undertake to convey the property on t he "attainment of age of majority" by the minor on 
whose behalf I am holding membership. I also declar e that I shall be ceased to hold the membership on 
behalf of the said minor, as soon as he attains age of majority.   
I declare that I will take all actions as a member of  the society on behalf of the minor in his/ her interest 
only.  
On behalf of the minor, I request you to adm it me as a member of the society.  
 Yours faithfully,  Place: Date : 
(Nominee — Heir who is a minor)  
(Through his Guardian / Legal Representative)  
 
Note :   
The undertaking about registration of the transfer of the flat is not necessary where the minor is related 
to the deceased member within the meaning of  Section 2(41) of the Income-Tax Act.  
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.  
  60 
  
APPENDIX – 2 
[Under the Bye-law Nos. 19 (B) and 62 (v)]
to the deceased member within the meaning of  Section 2(41) of the Income-Tax Act.  
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.  
  60 
  
APPENDIX – 2 
[Under the Bye-law Nos. 19 (B) and 62 (v)] 
The Form of application for membersh ip of the Societ y by an individual 
 
 To,   The Chief Promoter/ Secretary  ………… ………… …………. Co-operat ive Housing Society  
 Sir,  I, Shri/ Smt.   …. ……. …… … ….. …… ……. hereby make an application for membership of the …. 
……. …… … ….. …… ……. Co-operative Housing Society Ltd.,   
 
I intend to settle down and reside in the area of operation of the Society.   
 My particulars for the purpose of consideration of this application are as under :         
 
Age  :   
Occupation  :   
Monthly Income   :  Rs.   
Office Address   :   
Residential Address  :   
 
I have purchased the flat No. …. ……. …… ……. in  the building, named numbered as …. ……. …… 
……. admeasuring  …. ……. …… ……. sq. meters from t he Promoters (Builders) or Shri / Shrimati /
I have purchased the flat No. …. ……. …… ……. in  the building, named numbered as …. ……. …… 
……. admeasuring  …. ……. …… ……. sq. meters from t he Promoters (Builders) or Shri / Shrimati / 
Messrs…. ……. …… ……. under an agreement under Secti on 4 of the Ownership Flats, Act a copy of 
which, duly attested is enclosed.   
 
 
I declare that the said agreement is duly stam ped as required under Bombay Stamp Act-19 as to 
registration, the copy of which is enclosed.     
OR  
I give below the particulars of the Plot/ flat/ house owned by me or by any of the members of my family 
or the person dependent on me in the area of  operation of the society  :      
 
 61 
 Sr. 
No.  Name of 
the person  Particulars of the plot / Flat / house 
owned by the applicant or any of the members of his family or the person dependent in the area of operation of 
the Society.  Location of 
the plot/flat house  Reason as to why it 
is necessary to have a flat in this society.  
1  2  3  4  5
the Society.  Location of 
the plot/flat house  Reason as to why it 
is necessary to have a flat in this society.  
1  2  3  4  5  
     
 
 I remit herewith a sum of Rs. 500 /- towards value of  10 shares of Rs. 50 each and Rs. 100 for entrance 
fee.  
I undertake to discharge all the present and fu ture liabilities to the society.    
OR  
As I have no independent source of income, I enclose herewith the undertaking, in the prescribed form 
the person, on whom I am dependent to the effect that he will discharge al l the present and future 
liabilities to the society on my behalf.     
I undertake to use the flat for the purpose for which it is purchased by me and that any change of user 
will be made with the prior approval of  the Society. An undertaking to that effect in the prescribed form is 
enclose herewith.     
I have gone through the registered Bye-law of the society and undertake to abide by the same and any 
modification the Registering Au thority may make in them.
enclose herewith.     
I have gone through the registered Bye-law of the society and undertake to abide by the same and any 
modification the Registering Au thority may make in them.  
I request you to please admit me as the member of the society.   
 
 
Yours Faithfully,  
 
( full name here ) Date : Place :  Attested by,   Chief Promoters / Chairman     The expression “a member of family” means  as defined under bye-law No. 3 (xxv).  
 
 
  62 
 APPENDIX -3 
[Undertaking the Bye-laws Nos. 17(b) and 19(A)(iv)] 
 
A Form of undertaking to be furnished by the Prospecti ve Member to use the flat for the purpose for 
which it is purchased.  
 
 
I …… ……… …….. of  …………, Indian Inhabitant, re siding at …… ……… …….. Co-operative Housing 
Society Ltd., …… …… …….. Mumbai …… ……… …… .., intending member of the …… …… …….. Co-
I …… ……… …….. of  …………, Indian Inhabitant, re siding at …… ……… …….. Co-operative Housing 
Society Ltd., …… …… …….. Mumbai …… ……… …… .., intending member of the …… …… …….. Co-
op Housing Society Limited having address at, …… ……… …….. Mumbai …… ……… …….. hereby give the undertaking that I will use the Flat No. …… ……… …….. inherit ed by me, on demise of my late 
husband Shri …… ……… …….. the earlier member, under the bye-laws of the society for the purpose 
mentioned in the letter, which will be issued under by e-law No. 76(a) of the bye-laws of the society, 
registered.  I further give the undertaking that no change of user will be made by me without the previous permission, in writing of the committee of the society.   
 
…… ……… ……..  
(Signature)  
 
Place : Mumbai  
Date :------------   63 
 FORM NO. 4 
[Under the Bye-law No. 19 (A) (v)] 
A     Form of undertaking to be furnished by the per son, on whom the prospective Non Earning Member is
Place : Mumbai  
Date :------------   63 
 FORM NO. 4 
[Under the Bye-law No. 19 (A) (v)] 
A     Form of undertaking to be furnished by the per son, on whom the prospective Non Earning Member is 
dependent for discharge of li abilities to the society. 
 
 
 
To,   
 
The Chief Promoter/ Secretary   
…. ……..Co-operative Hous ing Society Limited.  
…….. ……… ………..  
 
Sir,   
Shri/ Smt. …… …… …. has made an application for memb ership of the … …… … …… …… …. Co-operative Hous
Societ y Ltd havin g address at …… …… …., Mumbai …… …… ....  He/ She has no independent source of income a
dependent on me. I therefore, undertake to dischar ge all the liabilities, present and future, pa yable b y her/his on her /
admission to membership of the societ y on her/his behalf as communicated to me directl y or throu gh her/him from ti m
to time, by the Society. On failure of such dischar ge in respect of dues, I shall also be liable for recover y u/s 101 of t h
to time, by the Society. On failure of such dischar ge in respect of dues, I shall also be liable for recover y u/s 101 of t h
MSC Act 1960, along with the said member who is dependent on me.     My details are given below :-   1.Name                         :- Shri/ Smt. … …… …… …. … …… ….   
 2.My Residence Address :- … …… …. … …… …… …. … …… ….  
 3.My Office Address      :- … …… …. … …… …… …. … …… ….  
 4.Contact details     :- … …… …… ….… …… …… ….… Occ upation                :- … …… …… ….… …… …
….… ……   Name and Full Address of the employer :-   
 … …… …. … …… …… …. … …… …… …. … …… …… ….  Monthly Income :-Rs… …… …… …./-   Place :-   Date :- Yours faithfully ,   
 
 
 
 
  64 
 APPENDIX- 5 
[Under the Bye -law Nos. 19B & 19C] 
The Form of application for Associate Membership by  an Individual, Who desires to hold shares jointly 
with Member , who is already admitted to membership of the Society 
 
To,  
 
The Secretary,  
…… …… … ….Co-op. Housing Society Ltd.,
with Member , who is already admitted to membership of the Society 
 
To,  
 
The Secretary,  
…… …… … ….Co-op. Housing Society Ltd., 
address ... ... ... ... ...  Sir,              Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… Is already a member of the ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… Co- operative Housing Society Lt d., having address at……. …….. ……… ……….. 
……… holding ten fully paid shares of Rs. Fifty each.              He/ She desires Shri / Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… to join him /her as an 
Associate member for the purpose of holding the shar es jointly with the applicant Shri / Shrimati ……. 
…….. ……… ……….. ……… in respect of flat no .. .. ... in building name .. ... ... .......... ........ ..... in the 
.... ..... .... Co- operative Housing Society Ltd 
             
 According, I make this application for admitting me the applicant as an Associate member to 
Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ………. . ……… And remit herewith the entrance fee of Rs. 100.
According, I make this application for admitting me the applicant as an Associate member to 
Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ………. . ……… And remit herewith the entrance fee of Rs. 100.  
  I state that I have purchased / own property jointl y with the First Member, being flat no ... ... ... 
in the Society, vide registered deed / title docum ents no ... ... ... ... dt ... ... ..,    
OR 
 I state that do not jointly own or have joint ti tle to the property with the above mentioned First 
Member 
 
            On my/our admission as an Associate member by the society, we shall be jointly and severally 
liable to discharge the present and futu re liabilities of the society.  
            The right of attending general body me eting and voting at them will  ordinarily be exercised by 
Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… whose name stands first in the share certificate. The 
name of Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… sh all stand second in the share certificate and
Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… whose name stands first in the share certificate. The 
name of Shri/Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… sh all stand second in the share certificate and 
he/she (the Associate member) shall have no rights or  privilege of a member, except attending general 
body meeting of the society and voting at them, prov ided that the member whose name stands first in 
the share certificate is absent at such meeting ot her than mentioned in section 27 of MCS Act, 1960.  
           I/We request you to admit me/us as an Associate member and include my name as an associate 
member in the share certificate bel ow the name of the first member.  
           The consent of the member for my/our admission as an Associate member is appended here 
below.  
             Yours faithfully  
 
(Signature of the applicant Whose name  
to stand second or thereafter In the Share Certificate)
below.  
             Yours faithfully  
 
(Signature of the applicant Whose name  
to stand second or thereafter In the Share Certificate)  
 
Place  :-   Date  :-    I, Shri/ Shrimati ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… a member of the ……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… Co- operative Housing Society Ltd., having address at……. …….. ……… ……….. ……… and holding 
ten paid up shares of Rupees fifty each recommend the application made by Sh ri/ Shrimati……. …….. 
……… ……….. ……… for Associate membership of the Society for the purpose of holding the shares 
jointly on terms and conditions set out in the above application. The name of Shri/ Shrimati……. …….. 
……… ……….. ……… be added in the share certificate ( enclose herewith), after my name. Signature of 65 
 the First Member  
Place :     Date:  
APPENDIX 6 
[Under the Bye-law No. 19(B)] 
The Form of application for Associate Membership by a Firm, or a Company or any other Body 
Corporate with the person already admi tted to membership of the Society. 
 
To,
The Form of application for Associate Membership by a Firm, or a Company or any other Body 
Corporate with the person already admi tted to membership of the Society. 
 
To,  
The Secretary,  
………………… Co-operative Housing Society Ltd.,  
 
Sir,  
 
Shri/ Shrimati … …… … …… …… …… …… is already a member of the …… …… Co-operative Society Ltd., having 
address at ……… …… ……… ………… holding ten full y paid shares of Rs. Fifty each.  
He/ She desires M/s……… ………… ………… ………… having address at… …… ……… ……… ………… …… …… to 
join him/ her as an associate member for the purpos e of holding the shares jointly with him/ her.  
Accordingly, we make this application for admitting us as an associate member  to Shri/ Shrimati ……… ………  ………… 
……… ….and remit herewith the membership entrance fee of Rs. 100.  The signatory to the application for associ ate membership is duly authorized by us  to sign the application on our behalf. 
A certified copy of the said letter of  authority in this behalf is enclosed.
A certified copy of the said letter of  authority in this behalf is enclosed.  
On our admission as an associate member by the Society, we shall be jointly and severally liable to discharge the 
present and future liabilities to the society.  
The right of attending general body meeti ng and voting at them will ordinary be exercised by Shri / Shrimati …… … …… 
… …… … …….. whose name stands first in  the share certificate, Name of us  M/s. …… …. …… ….. ……….. ……….. 
shall stand secondly in the Share Certificate and we shall hav e no rights or privileges of t he membership. However, if 
Shri/ Shrimati …… …… …… … …… ..remains absent for General Body meeting of the Society,  the we shall have a right 
to attend such meeting and to caste a vote.   We request you to admit us as an associate member and include our  name in the share certificat e next after the name of Shri
to attend such meeting and to caste a vote.   We request you to admit us as an associate member and include our  name in the share certificat e next after the name of Shri 
/ Shrimati …… ……… …… ………  …… ……  The consent of Shri/ Shrimati… ……… …… ……… …… ………… for our admission as an associate member is given below.  
 FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE   
    ……………………………………  
Date:   
Place: (Signature of the Applicant)  
 
We hereby declare that we are eligible for membership  of the society as provided under bye-law No. 18.  
We hereby submit the Article of Asso ciation & Memorandum of Association &Company Registration Certificate.  
I, Shri / Shrimati………… ………… …… ……………… ……………..a member of the ………………… ……… ……… …… …….Co- operative Housing Society Ltd., having address at………………………………………………………………….and hol ding five fully paid up shares of Rupees fifty each 
recommend the application made by M/s………… ……… ………… ………… ……… …….. for associate membership
recommend the application made by M/s………… ……… ………… ………… ……… …….. for associate membership 
with me for the purpose of holding the shares jointly on te rms and conditions be added in the share certificate(enclose 
herewith), after my name.  
 
     (Signature of the Applicant)  
 
Place : 
Date:  
  66 
 APPENDIX 10A 
[Under the Bye-law No. 116(d)] 
No Objection Certificate and Undertaking from the Origi nal    Member to be submitted by the Associate 
Member intending to  be a Member of the Managing Committee of the Society 
 
From:          Shri /Smt…………….     
Flat No………………     
 
To,  
The Chairman,  …………………………… Co-operative H ousing Society Ltd.,  
……………………………   Dear Sir,           I, Shri /Smt. …… … …… …… …… … …. a member of the society holdi ng share certificate No. … 
… …… .. jointly with Shri/ Smt… …… … …… …… … whose name stands Sr No. …….. ……. in the 
share certificate who intends to contest the electi on of the Managing Committee of the society for the 
year….. ………
share certificate who intends to contest the electi on of the Managing Committee of the society for the 
year….. ………  
      Since I do not wish to participate in the sa id election and since I have no objection to Shri/Smt…… 
…… ……… …… …… ……contesting the said  election. I hereby surrender a ll my voting rights in favour 
of Shri/ Smt… …… …… ….to enable him/her to  contest the ensuing election to the managing 
committee and to hold office of t he committeeman, if elected.   
       I hereby declare that I will not participate  in any manner in general meeting of the society or in 
election matter till such time as Shri/ Smt…… …… ……… …… …if  elected. Continues to hold the 
office of the committeeman.                                                                                     Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
(Signature of the Original Member)  
  67 
  
APPENDIX 11 
[Under the Bye-laws Nos. 20 and 43(2)(1)]
(Signature of the Original Member)  
  67 
  
APPENDIX 11 
[Under the Bye-laws Nos. 20 and 43(2)(1)] 
The Form of application for Nominal Membership by the sub-lettee the  Licensee or the Caretaker or 
Occupant 
 
To,   
The Secretary  
………………………..Co- operative Housing Society Ltd., 
………………………...  
 Sir,   
          Shri/Shrimati/Messrs ………. ………… ……… ………  I have entered into an agreement as per 
copy enclosed, with Shri/Shrimati ………. ………… ……… ………  and holding Flat No. ………. 
………… ……… ………  in the building of the Society, for sub-letting / giving on caretaker basis/leave 
and licence basis the said flat/pat of the said flat.           I/We request you to admi t me/us as a nominal of the society.  
         I/We remit herewith the entrance fee Rs. 100/-   
         I/We are aware that being a nominal member, I/We have no rights or privileges of a member and 
cannot claim any share in any form in t he profit or assets of the society.
I/We are aware that being a nominal member, I/We have no rights or privileges of a member and 
cannot claim any share in any form in t he profit or assets of the society.  
          I/We undertake to vacate the flat/ part of the peacefully immediately on expiry of the period of 
agreement or the extended period.            I/We have gone through the bye-law of the society and undertake to abide by them with any modifications, the Registering Authority may make  in them. I/We hereby undertake that we shall be 
liable for the payment of all the outgoing of the society.  
            The consent of Mr. ………. …………  ……… ………  for my/our admission as a nominal member 
of society is given below.   
                                                                                              Yours faithfully,  
Licensee/ Caretaker. 
 
 I , Shri/ Shrimati ………. ………… ……… ………  a me mber of the ……………… Co-operative Housing
Licensee/ Caretaker. 
 
 I , Shri/ Shrimati ………. ………… ……… ………  a me mber of the ……………… Co-operative Housing 
Society Ltd., ………. ………… ……… ………   give my consent for Mr. ………. ………… ……… ………  
to be admitted as a Nominal Member of the Society.  
 
(Signature of the Member )  
  68 
 APPENDIX-12 
(Under the Bye-laws No. 24 and 74 (a)) 
Form of Letter of Allotment of the flat to the member of the society . 
To,  
Shri. / Shrimati/ Messers ……. …….. …….. ……….  
……… ………. ………. ………. ………. …………  
……… ………. ………. ………. ………. …………  
Sir,  
  1. You are the member of the ………. ………. ………. Co-operative Housing Society Limited ( 
Registration Number ………. ………. ……….  dated, ) having address at ………. ………. ………. ………. 
………. ………. registered or deemed to be registered as per the provisions of Maharashtra Co-
operative Societies Act, 1960 by the Assistant Regi strar/ Deputy Registrar/ Joint Registrar of Co-
operative Societies.  
 
 
 2. You have purchased the Flat No ……….  ………. ………. Admeasuring   ………. ……….
operative Societies.  
 
 
 2. You have purchased the Flat No ……….  ………. ………. Admeasuring   ………. ………. 
………. Sq.mtrs., Constructed in the building No………. ………. / known as ………. ………. ……….  
………. ………. ………. constructed on the plot No ………. ………. ……….  Admeasuring ………. 
………. ……….  . sq.mtrs.  The said flat is deemed to have been allotted to you under Bye-law No.76(a) of the bye-laws of the society. The flat admeasur ing ………. ………. ……….  sq.mtrs. in the building No 
………. ………. ………. of the society known as ………. ………. ………. constr ucted on the plot 
admeasuring ………. ………. ………. Sq.mtrs. Stands allo tted to you under the provision of Bye-law 
No.76(a) of the bye-laws of the society on transfer of interest in the said flat by Shri/ Shrimati to you as 
approved by the Committee/ General Body  Meeting of the society held or   
  
 3. You may enjoy the right of occupation of the sa id flat / plot under the provisions of the Bye-
law No. 24(a) of the bye- laws of the society.
3. You may enjoy the right of occupation of the sa id flat / plot under the provisions of the Bye-
law No. 24(a) of the bye- laws of the society.  
 
 
 4. So long as the said Flat / B ungalow stands in your name in the records of the society, your 
right of occupying the flat / plot shall be subject to the following provisions in the bye -laws of the society 
that is to say sub-letting, giving on leave and licence m care- taker basis the said flat or part of the plot 
of parting with the possession of the flat /plot in any other manner , maintenance of the flat by the 
member and repairs to it additions and alterations in the Flat / Bungalow, avoiding any kind of nuisance, 
annoyance or inconvenience to other members of the society, stocking or stor ing of any kind of goods 
or materials, which are combustible, obnoxious or ot her goods for the storing of which permission of the
or materials, which are combustible, obnoxious or ot her goods for the storing of which permission of the 
authority, under any law, relating thereto is nece ssary restrictions on holding more than one Flat / 
Bungalow, payment of charges of the society, transfer of shares held by you and your interest in the 
capital/ property of the society, use of the flat / plot for the pur pose for which the same has been given 
as mentioned in para 5 below, change in user and any other conditions laid down under the provisions 
of the Bye-laws of the society or these bye-la ws, but not specifically mentioned hereinabove.  
 5. The Flat/ Bungalow allotted to you shal l be used only for the purposes mentioned below. 
(State here the purpose for which the fla / plot in  question allotted/ is deemed to have been allotted.)Any 
breach/breaches of the provision of the bye-laws of  the Society which are considered by the Managing
breach/breaches of the provision of the bye-laws of  the Society which are considered by the Managing 
Committee of the Society as serious nature shall render  you liable for expulsion from membership of the 
Society and consequently eviction from the flat/ plot.   Yours faithfully,  Place :-  
Date:-    Secretary/Chairman  
  69 
 APPENDIX - 13 
[Under the Bye-law No.27(a)] 
The Form of Notice of Resignation of Membership of the society by a member 
To,   
 
The Hon. Secretary,  
…. …… ……. ….. …… ….. …. …… ……. ….. …… …..  
…. …… ……. ….. …… ….. …. …… ……. ….. …… …..  Sir,  I/ we Shri/ Smt. …. …… ……. ….. …… ….. is/are a member/s of the …. …… ……. ….. …… ….. Co-
operative Housing Society Ltd. having address at ….  …… ……. ….. …… ….. ….  ….. …… …..  holding 
5 shares of Rupees Fifty each, amounting to Rs 50/- the Office/ Flat no. …… in  …… wing in the building 
of the society numbered/ known as …. …… ……. ….. CHS Ltd.
5 shares of Rupees Fifty each, amounting to Rs 50/- the Office/ Flat no. …… in  …… wing in the building 
of the society numbered/ known as …. …… ……. ….. CHS Ltd.  
I/ we desire to withdraw from the society and therefore give you a notice of three months of our intention 
to resign membership of the society, as required und er the Bye-law No. 27(a) of the bye-laws of the 
society.  I/ we hereby state that I/ we am/ are prepared to dischar ge in full the amount of liability to the society as 
per records of the society before my resignation is considered by the Managing Committee of the 
society  OR 
I/ we authorize the society to recover the charges of the society, due to me from the value of my interest 
in the flat.  
On acceptance of my/our resignation, I/we will su rrender the share certificate No. ….. ….. for shares 
numbering from …… to …… (both inclusive) for Rs. 50/ - to the society and the vacant possession of the
numbering from …… to …… (both inclusive) for Rs. 50/ - to the society and the vacant possession of the 
office for being acquired by the  society purchasers or transferee. I / we request you to please pay me / us the value of the shares 
referred to above and the value of my / our intere st in the flat, due to me, after deducting the amount 
payable to the Society and outstanding against me.  
Yours faithfully,   
 Shri/ Smt. …. …… ……. ….. …… …..  Place : 
Date : 
 
  70 
 APPENDIX 14 
[Under the Bye-law No.31] 
FORM OF NOMINATION TO BE FURNISHED IN TRIPLICATE 
 
To,  
 
The Secretary  
………………………..Co-operative Housing Society Ltd., ………… …… ……….. …………… …………..   
Sir,  
 1.I/We/Shri/Shrimati/Messrs ……… …… … …… … …… …… ……….. are a member of the 
…… …… …… ……… ………Co-operative Housing Soci ety Ltd, having addr ess at ……… ……… … 
…… … …… …………    2.I hold the share certificate no. . …. …….. . … .. dated … . . . . . . . fully paid up shares of
…… …… …… ……… ………Co-operative Housing Soci ety Ltd, having addr ess at ……… ……… … 
…… … …… …………    2.I hold the share certificate no. . …. …….. . … .. dated … . . . . . . . fully paid up shares of 
Rupees fifty each, bearing number from….. ……… to …… .. ……. (both inclusive), issued by the said 
society to me.   3.I also hold the Flat No…… ……… admeasuring ……. ……….. sq. metres, in the building of 
the said society, known*numbered as …….. ………   4.As provided under Rule 25 of the Maharasht ra Co-op. Societies Rules, 1961, I hereby 
nominate the person/s whose parti culars are as given below,  
 
Sr. 
no.  Name/s of the 
Nominee/s  Permanent 
Address of the 
Nominee/s  Relationship 
with the 
Nominator  Share of each 
nominee 
(Percentage)  Date of Birth of 
nominee/s if the 
nominee/s is a minor  
1       
      
            
 
 
 5.As provided under Section 30 of eh Maharasht ra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960, and the
(Percentage)  Date of Birth of 
nominee/s if the 
nominee/s is a minor  
1       
      
            
 
 
 5.As provided under Section 30 of eh Maharasht ra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960, and the 
Bye- laws No. 36 of the Society, I state that on my death the Shares mentioned above and my interest 
in eh flat, the details of which are given above, should  be transferred to Shri/ Shrimati… … …… …… 
…… …the first named nominee, on his/her  complying with the provisions of the Bye-laws of the society 
regarding requirements of admission to membersh ip and on furnishing *Indemnity Bond, alongwith the 
application for membership, indemnify ing the society against any claims made to the said shares and 
my interest in the said flat by the other nominee/nominees.   6.As the nominee at Sr. No… …… …… ……  …i s the minor. I hereby appoint Shri/Shrimati… 
… …… …… … …  ……… …… .as the guardian/legal represent ative  of the minor to represent the
… …… …… … …  ……… …… .as the guardian/legal represent ative  of the minor to represent the 
minor nominee in Matters connected with this nomination.    Signature of the Nominator Member  
Place:  
Date:  
 
Witnesses  
Name and Addresses of Witnesses   71 
  (1)Shri/Shrimati………………….                                (1) Signature of the Witness  
 Address……………………….  ………………………………..  
 (2)Shri/Shrimati………………….                                (2) Signature of the Witness  
 
Address……………………….  
      ………………………………..  
Place:  
 
 
 
     The nomination was placed in the meeti ng of the managing committee of the society held on 
…………….. for being recorded in it minutes.          The nomination has been recorded in the nomination register at Sr. No……………...   
 
Date:                                                                                                             
The Hon. Secretary  
………Co.op. Housing Society Ltd.  
 
Received the duplicate copy of the nomination.
The Hon. Secretary  
………Co.op. Housing Society Ltd.  
 
Received the duplicate copy of the nomination.  
 
Date:                                                                                        Nominator- Member  
  
  72 
 APPENDIX 15 
[Under the Bye-laws Nos. 33] 
The Form of application for Membership by the Nominee/Nominees 
 
 
To,   
The Secretary  
………………………..Co- operative Housing Society Ltd., 
………………………...  ………………………...  
 
Sir,  
     I/We Shri/Smt./Messrs …… …… … …… …… hereby make an application for membership of the 
…… …… … …… …… Co-operative Housing Society Ltd …… …… … …… …… and for transfer of 
shares and interest of Shri/Shrimati…… …… … …… …… Deceased member of the society, in the 
capital/ property of the society.      Shri/Shrimati …… …… … …… …… was a member of the society holding …… …… … …… …… shares of Rs. fifty each and Flat No. ……  …… … …… …… in the society’s building. 
    Shri/Shrimati…… …… … …… …… the deceased  member of the society died on…… …… … ……
Shri/Shrimati…… …… … …… …… the deceased  member of the society died on…… …… … …… 
…… A copy of the death certificate of the said member is enclosed.       The late Shri/Shrimati…… …… … …… …… the deceased member of t he society had nominated 
me/us under Rule 25 of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Rules, 1961.  
      Being the only nominee/ authuorised nominees  as per nomination filed with the society by the 
deceased member, I/We am /are entitled to make an application for membership of the society and fro 
transfer of shares and interest of the deceased member in the capital/property of eth society to my/ our 
name.        I/We have executed the Indemnity Bond in fa vour of the society indemnifying it against any claim 
made at any subsequent time by other nominee/ nomi nees to the shares and interest of the deceased 
member in the capital / property of the society. The said Indemnity Bond is enclosed herewith.[Appendix
member in the capital / property of the society. The said Indemnity Bond is enclosed herewith.[Appendix 
18(1)]      I/We remit herewith an amount of Rs. 100 as entrance fee My particulars for the purpose of consideration of my application for memb ership of the society are as under:  
 
Age                             :      …………………………. 
Occupation                  :       …………………………. 
Monthly Income           :       Rs………………………  
Office Address            :       ………………………… 
Residential Address     :       ………………………… 
 
        I/We enclose herewith the undertaking and declaration, in the prescribed forms, in respect of the 
registration of transfer of the resi gnation of transfer of the flat to my/our name under Section 269AB of 
the Income-Tax Act.          I/We undertake to discharge the present and future liabilities to the society/ As I have no 
independent source of income, I enclose herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form from the
independent source of income, I enclose herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form from the 
person, on whom I am dependent to the effect that he  will discharge all the present and future liabilities 
to the society on my behalf.        I/We have got understood one through the bye-laws of the society and undertake to abide by the same and any modifications  that the Registering Au thority may in them.  
       I/We request you to please admit me/u s a member of the society and transfer the shares and 
interest of the deceased member in the capital / pr operty of the society to my/ our name. The share 
certificate held by the, deceased member is enclosed herewith.  
 
Your Faithfully,  Place………………..  Date………………..  
Note (1) The expression “a member of a family” means as defined under bye- law 3(xxv).  
         (2) The undertaking about registration of the flat is not necessary if the nominee is related to the deceased member w ithin
(2) The undertaking about registration of the flat is not necessary if the nominee is related to the deceased member w ithin 
the meaning of Section 2(41) of the Income-tax Act.  73 
 APPENDIX-16 
[Under the Bye-law No. 34] 
The Form of Notice, inviting claims or objections to  the transfer of the shares and the interest of the 
Deceased Member in the Capital/ Property of the society. 
 
(To be published in two local newspapers having large publication)  
NOTICE  
Shri/Shrimati ……. ……… …….. ……….  a Member of the ……… …….. ………. Co-operative Housing 
Society Ltd. having, address at……… …….. ………. and holding flat/ tenement No ……. ………… 
………… in the building of the society, died on ……… …….. ………. without making any nomination. 
The society hereby invites claims or  objections from the heir or heirs or other claimants/ objector or 
objectors to the transfer of the said shares and inte rest of the deceased member in the capital/ property
objectors to the transfer of the said shares and inte rest of the deceased member in the capital/ property 
of the society within a period of days from the publicat ion of this notice, with copies of such documents 
and other proofs in support of his/her /their claims/ objections for transfe r of shares and interest of the 
deceased member in the capital/ property of the societ y. If no claims/ objections are received within the 
period prescribed above, the society shall be free to deal with the shares and interest of the deceased 
member in the capital/ property of the society in su ch manner as is provided under the bye-laws of the 
society. The claims/ objecti ons, if any, received by the society for transfer of shares and interest of the 
deceased member in the capital/ property of the so ciety shall be dealt with in the manner provided 
under the bye-laws of the society. A copy of the registered bye-laws of the society is available for
under the bye-laws of the society. A copy of the registered bye-laws of the society is available for 
inspection by the claimants/ objectors, in the office of the society/ with the secretary  
Of the society between ……… …….. A. M.I P. M. to …. …… …..A.M./P.M. from the  
date of publication of the notice till the date of expiry of its period.  
 
For and on behalf of  
 The ........................Co-op. Housing Society Ltd.  
Place : Hon. Secretary   Date   :  
  74 
 APPENDIX-18 
(Under the Bye-law Mo. 34) 
FORM OF INDEMNITY BOND, 
(To be given on Stamp Paper of Rs. 200 or to be affixed with adhesive stamps of the same 
denomination) 
(To be given where there are more nominees than one) 
 
I, Shri/Shrimati ………… ……….. residing at ………… ………..  anIndian inhabitant state as under:  
2. Shri/Shrimati ………… ……….. residing at ………… ……….. was the member of the ………… ……….. ………… ……….. Co-operative Housing Society Ltd, havi ng address at ………… ………..
2. Shri/Shrimati ………… ……….. residing at ………… ……….. was the member of the ………… ……….. ………… ……….. Co-operative Housing Society Ltd, havi ng address at ………… ……….. 
He/She was holding Share Certificate No ………… ………. . for ten fully paid up shares of rupees fifty 
each, bearing distinct numbers from  ………… ……….. to ………… ……….. (both inclusive).  
3. The said Shri/Shrimati ………… ……….. was hol ding the flat / tenement  No. ………… ………..   on 
………… ……….. floor, in the building known as; or in the building No. of the society constructed on the 
plot of land, bearing No  situat ed at ………… ……….. ………… ………..   
4. The said Shri/Shrimati………… ………..  …………  ……….. had nominated the following persons 
under Rule 25 of the Maharashtra  Co-op Societies Rules, 1961
4. The said Shri/Shrimati………… ………..  …………  ……….. had nominated the following persons 
under Rule 25 of the Maharashtra  Co-op Societies Rules, 1961  
i) Shri/Shrimati  .............................................................................. ii) Shri/Shrimati  .............................................................................. iii) Shri/Shrimati  .............................................................................. iv) Shri/Shrimati  .............................................................................. 
 5. I am duly authorised by the above nominees to make an application *':-membership of the 
society. My name appears first in the said nomination Letter  
 
 6. The said Shri/Shrimati died on or about ………… ……….. 
 7. According to the Bye-law No. 34 of the said So ciety, I am entitled to make ar application for 
membership of the said society and for transfer of th e said shares a~ interest of the said deceased
membership of the said society and for transfer of th e said shares a~ interest of the said deceased 
member in the said flat / tenement to my na mes Accordingly, I have made an application for 
membership of the said society and *ar transfer of the shares and the interest of the said deceased 
member in the said, flat tenement to my name.   8. I hereby indemnify and keep i ndemnified the said society and its office-bearers -against any 
claim, demand, suit or other legal proceedings by  other nominee/nominees claiming either lawfully 
and/or equitably through the said deceased Shri/Shr imati ………… ……….. and shall see that the said 
society and its office bearers are not put to losses.  
 
I further declare and undertake to bear all expenses, costs, charges in respect of any such claim, 
demand, suit and/or legal proceedings which may be filed by other  nominee/ nominees either lawfully 
and/or equitably claiming thr ough the said deceased member of the society.
demand, suit and/or legal proceedings which may be filed by other  nominee/ nominees either lawfully 
and/or equitably claiming thr ough the said deceased member of the society.  
 9. I am fully aware of the fact that the societ y admits me as its member in place of the said 
deceased member of the society only on the basis of  the indemnity and undertaking furnished by me.  
 Signature of applicant  
Place : 
Date   :  
Signature of nominees other than applicant  
1) ............................................................. 2) ............................................................. 3) ............................................................. 
Witnesses :-  
 
1) Name ............. ................. ........  1) Signature of the Witness  
Address  .................................. 2) Name ............. .................... .....  2) Signature of the Witness  
Address  ................................. Place   :  Date    :  75 
 APPENDIX-19 
[Under the Bye-law No. 35]
Address  ................................. Place   :  Date    :  75 
 APPENDIX-19 
[Under the Bye-law No. 35] 
FORM OF INDEMNITY BOND 
To be given on Stamp Paper of Rs. 200 or on a paper  affixed with adhesive stamps of the same 
denomination.  
(To be given where there is no nomination) 
 
1. I, Shri/Shrimati ….. …… …… …….. of … …… …… ….. Indian inhabitant state as under. 
2. Shri/Shrimati …… … … ……. re siding at …… …… …… ……….who was the member of the  Co-
operative Housing Society Ltd. having address at …… …… …… …… … …… died on or about   
3. The said Shri/ Shrimati … …. … …. ………  had not made an nomination as  provided under Rule 25 
of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Rules 1961.  
4. The said Shri/Shrimati ……… ……… ……… was hol ding the share certificate No. ………….. for ten 
fully paid up shares of Rupees Fifty each, bearing distinctive number from ……… ……..to…….. … …… (both inclusive)  5.  The said Shri/ Shrimati ……….. ………………. Wa s  holding the flat / tenement No. ……. … …… on
…… ….. ……… ……. floor, in the building of the society kn own as ..................... or in the building No 
constructed  on the plot of land bearin g no ……… …………. situated at …………. …………….  
6. The said Shri/Shrimati …… ……………….. has left behi nd me as his/her only heir/ the following heirs :  
(i) Shri/Shrimati  ................................................................................ (ii) Shri/Shrimati  ................................................................................ 
(iii) Shri/Shrimati  ................................................................................ 
(iv) Shri/Shrimati  ................................................................................ 
(v) Shri/Shrimati  ................................................................................
(v) Shri/Shrimati  ................................................................................ 
As I am the only heir of the deceased Shri/Shrimati ……….. ……………… I inherit his/her shares, and his/her interest in the said tenement. According to the bye-law No. 35 of the bye-laws of the said society, I am entitled to make an application for mem bership of the said society and for transfer of the 
said shares and interest of the said deceased member in the said flat / tenement to my name. 
Accordingly, I have made an applicati on for transfer of the said shares and the interest of the said 
deceased member in  the said flat to my name.  OR 
According to the bye-law No 35 of the bye laws' of  the society, all the above heirs have jointly made an 
affidavit, and have suggested my name to make an applic ation for membership of the said society and 
for transfer of the said shares and the interest of the said deceased member in the said flat / tenement/
for transfer of the said shares and the interest of the said deceased member in the said flat / tenement/ 
plot of land to my name . Accordingly I have made application for membership of the said society and 
for transfer of the said shares and the interest of t he deceased member in the said flat / tenement to my 
name.  
7. I hereby indemnify and keep indemnified the said society and its office-bearers against any claim 
demand, suit or other legal proceedings by any other  heir/heirs, either lawfu lly and/or equitably through 
the said deceased Shri/Shrimati . ……….. ………. …… …. …….. and shall see that the said society and 
its office bearers are not put to losses. I furthe r declare and undertake to bear all expenses, costs, 
charges in respect of any such claim, demand, su it and/or legal proceedings which may be filed by any 
other heir/heirs either la wfully and/or equitably cl aiming through the said deceased member of the 
society.
other heir/heirs either la wfully and/or equitably cl aiming through the said deceased member of the 
society.  
8. I am fully aware of the fact t hat the society admits me as its me mber in place of the said deceased 
member of the society only on the basis of the indemnity and undertaking furnished by me.  
Signatures   
1. ………… ……………….. …………… 1) Name ................. ............ 1) Signature of the Witness  
        Witnesses  Address   
2. ………… ……………….. …………… 2) Name.................. ...........  2) Signature of the Witness  
        Address  ............ Place: Date   :  
  76 
 Appendix -20 (2) 
( Under the Bye-law No.37 (a)) 
A form of the letter of consent of the proposed Transferee for the transfer of the shares and interest of 
the member (Transferor) to him ( Transferee). 
 
To,  
The Secretary,  
…… ……. ……. Co-operative Hous ing Society, Limited.  
…… …….…… …….…… ……. …… …….…… …….
the member (Transferor) to him ( Transferee). 
 
To,  
The Secretary,  
…… ……. ……. Co-operative Hous ing Society, Limited.  
…… …….…… …….…… ……. …… …….…… …….  
Sir,  Shri/Shrimati/ M/s ……….. ………… . ………. are the members of …… .. ………. Co-operative Housing 
Society Ltd. Proposes to transfer his / her / their shar es and interest in the capital/property of the society 
to me/us. I/We hereby give my/our consent for the transfer of shares and interest of Shri/ Smt./M/s. 
………. …….. in the capital /property of the society to me/us as required under Rule 24(1) (b) of the 
Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Rules, 1961.  My/our name and address is as under.   
Yours faithfully. 
 
 
(Transferee) 
 
Place:  Date :-  
  77 
 Appendix - 20 (I) 
( Under the Bye-law No.37 (a)) 
A form of Notice of, intention of a member to transfe r his shares and Interest in the capita! /property of 
the Society. 
To,  
The Secretary,  
 ...................................... Co-operative Housing Society, Limited.
the Society. 
To,  
The Secretary,  
 ...................................... Co-operative Housing Society, Limited.  
Sir,  
l/We Shri/Shrimati/M/s …….. …… ……… ……. Are  the member of ……… ………..  Co-operative 
Housing Society Ltd. Having  address at ……… ………and are holding T en /Twenty fully paid up shares 
of Rs.50/-, bearing distinct ive numbers from  …….. …… ……… …….  to …….. …… ……… …….  
(both) inclusive) and are holding the flat / tenement no. …….. …… ……. in the building no …….. …… 
……… ……. of the society, and hereby give you notic e as required under Rule 24 of the Maharashtra 
Co-operative Societies Rules, 1961, as under.  I/we Shri/ Shrimati / M/s ………. . …………… ……….. intend to transfer my/our shares and  my/our 
ownership right, title and interest in the capital in the flat / tenement in the building of the Society, and 
my/our interest in the property of the society to Shri. /Shrimati/ M/s
ownership right, title and interest in the capital in the flat / tenement in the building of the Society, and 
my/our interest in the property of the society to Shri. /Shrimati/ M/s 
........................................................................... for a consideration of Rs ……….. …………… ………..  
The consent of the transferee is enclosed.  
Yours faithfully , 
 
 
(Transferor ) 
 Place:-  Date :-  
  78 
 Appendix No. 21 
(Under the Bye - law No. 37 (e) (i)) 
Form of application for transfer of shares and interest  in the capital/ property of the society by the 
transferor (being an individual) 
To,  
…… ……. …….. Co-operative Housing Society Ltd.  
…… ……. …….. …… ……. …….. …… ……. ……..  
Sir,  
1. I Shri/Shrimati …… ……. …….. …… …….  am the member of …… ……. …….. …… …….  Co-
operative Housing Society Ltd., having address at  and holding share certificate No …… ……. …….. 
…… …….  for ten fully, paid up shares of Rupees fi fty each, bearing distinctive numbers from …….. to
operative Housing Society Ltd., having address at  and holding share certificate No …… ……. …….. 
…… …….  for ten fully, paid up shares of Rupees fi fty each, bearing distinctive numbers from …….. to 
………(both inclusive) and holding Flat / Tenem ent No …… ……. …….. …… …….  admeasuring 
……… sq. mtrs in the building of the society, numbered / known as   2. I had given you notice of my intention to tr ansfer the said shares and my interest in the 
capital / property of the society on as required under  Rule 24 (1) (b) of Maharashtra Co-operative 
Societies Rules, 1961 along with the consent of t he proposed transferee Shri / Shrimati / Ms …… ……. 
…….. …… …….    
 3. I enclose herewith the application in the prescr ibed form for membership of the said society 
by the said proposed transferee . 
 
4. I remit here with the transfer fee of Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only ) I alsc 
remit herewith the amount of the premium of Rs  …… ……. …….. …… …….   (Rupees …… ……. ……..
4. I remit here with the transfer fee of Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only ) I alsc 
remit herewith the amount of the premium of Rs  …… ……. …….. …… …….   (Rupees …… ……. …….. 
…… …….  only) as provided under bye-law No. 38 (e  (ix) of the bye laws of the society.   4. I state that the said shares and interest in the capital /property of the said society  
  have been held by me for a period of not less than a year.  
 6. I further state that the liabilities due to t he said society by me as on the date of this 
application have been fully paid by me . I also undertake  to pay the liabilities which may become due till 
the transfer application is approved by the society.  
 7. I hereby undertake to discharge any liabilities to  the said society which related to the period 
of my membership with the said society and have before payable by me after cessation of my 
membership of the society due to any demand made by the local authority, Government or by any other
of my membership with the said society and have before payable by me after cessation of my 
membership of the society due to any demand made by the local authority, Government or by any other 
Authority on any account, after cessation of my membership. 
 8. I propose to transfer the said shares and my interest in the capital / property of the said 
society on the following grounds.  
 i)…… ……. …….. …… …….    
 ii)…… ……. …….. …… …….    
 iii)…… ……. …….. …… …….    
 9. I also furnish herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form on One Hundred Rupees 
stamp paper about the registration of the transfer as required und er section 269-A-B of Income Tax Act  
 10. I request you to approve the proposed transfer and inform me accordingly.  
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
(Signature of the Transferor ) 
  
Place :-  Date :-   
  79 
 APPENDIX No.22 
(Under the Bye law No. 37(e) (i)) 
Form of application for transfer of shares and interest  in the capital/ property of the society by the
Place :-  Date :-   
  79 
 APPENDIX No.22 
(Under the Bye law No. 37(e) (i)) 
Form of application for transfer of shares and interest  in the capital/ property of the society by the 
transferor. (Being a Corporate Body) 
To,  
The Secretary,  
……… ……… ………Co-operative Housing Society Ltd. 
Sir,   
1. I We/M/s. ……… ……… ……… are the member  of ……… ……… ……… Co-operative Housing 
Society Ltd, having address at ……… ……… ……… and    holding    share    certificate    No. ……. 
……….. ………. for Twenty fully paid up shares of Rupees Fifty each bearing distinctive numbers from 
…. ……. To …….. ….. ( both inclusive) and hol ding Flat/ Tenement No. …… ……. Admeasuring …… 
…… sq. mtrs. in the building of the society, numbered/ known as ……… ………   2. We had given you notice of my intention to transfer  the said shares and our interest in the capital / 
property of the society on ................. as requi ted under Rule 24 (1) (b) of Maharashtra Co-operative
property of the society on ................. as requi ted under Rule 24 (1) (b) of Maharashtra Co-operative 
Societies Rules, 1961 along with the consent of t he proposed transferee Shri/ Shrimati/ M/s. ……. …… 
………   
3 We enclose herewith the application in the prescribed form for membersh ip of the said society by the 
said proposed transferee named in the notice referred to above.  
 4.We remit herewith the transfer fee of Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only). We also remit 
herewith the amount of the premium of Rs ………. ………. …………. (Rupees ………. ………. ………….  
only) as provided under bye law No.38 (e) (vii) of the bye laws of the society.  
 5. We state that the said shares and interest in the capital /property of the said society  
have been held by us for a period of not less than a year.  6. We further state that the liabiliti es due to the said society by us as on the date of this application have
have been held by us for a period of not less than a year.  6. We further state that the liabiliti es due to the said society by us as on the date of this application have 
been fully paid by us. We also undertake to pay the liabilities which may become due till the transfer application is approved by the society.  
 7. We hereby undertake to discharge any liabilities to the said society which are related to the 
period of our membership with the said societ y and have become payable by us after cessation of 
membership of the society due to any demand made by the local authority, Government or by any other 
Authority on any account after cessation of my membership.  
 8. We propose to transfer the said shares and our interest is the capital / property of the said 
society on the following grounds :  
 i) ...........................................................................  
 ii) .........................................................................
society on the following grounds :  
 i) ...........................................................................  
 ii) ......................................................................... 
 9. We also furnish herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form on one hundred Rupees 
stamp paper about the registration of the transfer as required under section 269-A-B of the Income Tax 
Act there under.  
 10. We have authorised Shri./Shrimati ……… . ………. …………. to sign the application for 
transfer on our behalf. A certified copy of the authority letter is enclosed herewith.  
 
11. We request you to approve the proposed transfer and inform us accordingly.  
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
(Transferor)  
(Signature of the Transferor) 
 
Place :-  Date :-   
  80 
 FORM NO. 23 
[Under the Bye-law No. 37 (e) (ii)] 
Form of application for membership of the societ y by the Proposed transfe ree. [being an individual] 
 
To,  
The Secretary,   
…… … ……… …… ……… … ……… …Co-op. Hsg. Soc. Ltd.
Form of application for membership of the societ y by the Proposed transfe ree. [being an individual] 
 
To,  
The Secretary,   
…… … ……… …… ……… … ……… …Co-op. Hsg. Soc. Ltd. 
……… ………… ……… ………… ……   Sir,  
 
Shri/Shrimati ………… ……… ………… intend to become a member of the ………… ……… ………… 
Co-operative Housing Society Ltd., having addr ess at ………… ……… ………… by transfer of the 
Shares Certificate No ………… ……… …………  for fi ve fully paid up shares of Rupees Fifty each 
bearing distinctive numbers from ………… to …… …… ……… ………… [both in clusive] held by 
Shri/Shrimati  ………… ……… …………  the member of the said society and his / her interest in the flat 
No………… admeasuring sq. metres, in the building of  the said society, numbered / known as ………… 
……… ………… held by the said Shri/ Shri mati ………… ……… ………… to my name.
No………… admeasuring sq. metres, in the building of  the said society, numbered / known as ………… 
……… ………… held by the said Shri/ Shri mati ………… ……… ………… to my name.  
I had given my consent to the proposed transfer of the said shares and the interest of the said transferor in the capital / property of the said society to me on ………… ……… …………  I now make this application for membership of the said society and for transfer of the said shares and 
the interest of the said transferor in the capita l / property of the said society to my name.  
The particulars for the purpose of consideration of my application for membership of the ………… 
……… ………… Co-op. Hsg. Soc.  Ltd., are given below : 
Age  :   
Occupation  :   
Monthly Income  :  Rs.   
Office Address  :   
 
Residential Address  :   
 I remit herewith the entrance fee of Rs. 100/- [Rupees One Hundred only].  
I declare that there is no plot / fl at / house owned by me / any of the members of my family / the person
I remit herewith the entrance fee of Rs. 100/- [Rupees One Hundred only].  
I declare that there is no plot / fl at / house owned by me / any of the members of my family / the person 
dependent on me, in the area of operation of the society.  
OR*  
 I give below the particulars of t he plot / flat / house owned by me / 
any of the members of my family / the person dependent on me, in 
the area of operation of the society.  
Sr. 
No.  Name of 
the person  Particulars of the plot / flat / house 
owned by me / the members of my family / the person dependent 
on me, the area of operation of 
the society  Location of the 
plot / flat / house  Reasons as to why it is 
necessary to have a flat in this society  
1  2  3  4  5  
     81 
      
     
 
I furnish herewith the declaration in the prescri bed form, on ten rupees stamp paper, about non-holding 
of any vacant land or land with a building, in any urban agglomeration, sp ecified under the Urban Land
of any vacant land or land with a building, in any urban agglomeration, sp ecified under the Urban Land 
(ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976, the area of which exceeds 500 sq. mtrs.  
I also furnish herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form, on ten rupees stamp paper, about 
registration of the transfer under Section 269 AB of the Income-tax Act and the rules made thereunder.  
I undertake to use the flat, proposed to be transferred to me, for the propose 
 
mentioned in the letter that will be issued to me by the said  society, under bye-law No. 76 (a) of the bye-laws of the 
said society and that no change of the user of the said flat will be made by me without the prior approval of the society 
in writing. The undertaking to that effect in the prescribed form is enclosed herewith.  
I undertake to discharge all the liabilities  to the society, which may become due fr om the date of my admission to the
I undertake to discharge all the liabilities  to the society, which may become due fr om the date of my admission to the 
membership of the society. As I have no independent sour ce of income, I enclose herewith the undertaking in the 
prescribed form from the person, on whom I am dependent, to t he effect that he will dischar ge all the liabilities of the 
society.  
I enclose herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form that the plot / flat / house owned by me / any of the members 
of my family / the person dependent on me, the details of wh ich are given in this application about the disposal of the 
said flat / plot / house.  
I have gone through the bye-laws of the society and undertake  to abide by the same and any  modifications that the 
Registering Authority may make in them.  
I request you to please admit me as a member of the said  society and transfer the shares and the interest of the 
transferor in the capital / property of the said society to my name.
I request you to please admit me as a member of the said  society and transfer the shares and the interest of the 
transferor in the capital / property of the said society to my name.  
 
Yours faithfull y,
 
 
 (Signature of the applicant)   
Place  : 
Date  : 
  
 
  82 
 APPENDIX No. 24 
(Under the Bye-law No. 37(e)(ii)) 
Form of application for membership of the society by the proposed transferee (Being a Body Corporate) 
 
To,  
The Secretary,  
………. …….. …….. ........ ... Co-operative Housing Society Ltd.,  
Sir,   1.We, Messers ………. …….. …….. having address at ……….  …….. ……..intend to become a member of the 
Co-operative Housing Society Ltd., by transfer of Shar e Certificate No ………. …….. ……..for twenty fully paid up 
shares bearing distinctive numbers from ………. …….. …….. to ………. …….. ……..(both inclusive) held by Shri/Smt  
the member of the said society and his/her interest in Flat No ………. …….. …….. admeasuring ………. …….. ……..sq.
the member of the said society and his/her interest in Flat No ………. …….. …….. admeasuring ………. …….. ……..sq. 
mtrs, in the building of the said society, numbered/named as to our name.  
 2.We had given our consent to the proposed transfer of the said shares and interes: of the said transferor in 
the capital/ property of the said society to us on    3.We now make this application for membership of the said society and for transfer of the said shares and the 
interest/ of the said transferor in the capital/  property of the said society to our name.  
 4.We remit herewith the entrance fee of Rs. 100/ - (Rupees one hundred only) and Rs. 500/- (Rupees five 
hundred only) as value of aforesaid shares as per bye-law No 19(B).  
 5.We hereby undertake to discharge all the liabilities to the society which ma. become due from the date of our 
admission to the membership of the society.
5.We hereby undertake to discharge all the liabilities to the society which ma. become due from the date of our 
admission to the membership of the society.  
 6.We declare on the basis of the information given to us by the said society that by admitting us to membership 
of the said society, the total membership of corporate bodies  of the said society will not  exceed the limit mentioned in 
Government order enclosed at Annexure 1 to bye laws of the society.   
 7.We also furnish herewith the undertaking in the prescribed form on One Hundred Rupees  
  stamp paper about registration of the transfer under se ction 269 AB of the Income Tax Act and the rules made 
their under.   
 8.We undertake to use the flat / t enement proposed to be transferred to us for the purpose mentioned in the 
letter that will be issued to us by the said society under bye- law No. 76(a) of the bye-laws of  the said society and that no
letter that will be issued to us by the said society under bye- law No. 76(a) of the bye-laws of  the said society and that no 
change of user of the said flat will be made by us without prior approved of t he society in writing: The undertaking to 
that effect in the prescribed form is enclosed herewith.  
 9.We have gone through the bye-laws of the societ y and the Government orders issued under section 22 of 
Maharashtra Co-op. Societies Act, 1960 and  undertake to abide by the same and any  modifications that the registering 
Authority and the Government may respectively make in them.   
 10.Shri/Shrimati ………. …….. …….. has been authorized to sign this applic ation on our behalf. A certified 
copy of the authority letter is enclosed herewith.  
 11.We request you to please admit us as member of the said society and to transfer said shares and the 
interest of the transferor in the capital/ property of the said society to our name.  
 
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE
interest of the transferor in the capital/ property of the said society to our name.  
 
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE 
Signature of authorised person  
Place   : 
Date    :  83 
 On A Hundred Rupees STAMP PAPER  
APPENDIX-25(1) 
(Under the Bye - law No. 37(e) (xi) 
A form of undertaking about the regist ration of the transfer of a flat under Section 269 AB of the Income 
- Tax Act. 
(To be given jointly by the Tr ansferor and the Transferee) 
 
I/We, Shri/Srimati/Messers …… ….. …… .…. …… (Transferor) am/are a member/members of the ….. 
…….  …………… ……………. Co- operative Housing Society Ltd, Address :- ……………. ………… 
………… …………..  holding flat/ bungalow no ……….. ……….. ……. address:-……… ………….. 
…………….. in the building/plot of the society and …………………. ………….  (Transferee) intends to 
become a member and intends to get transferred the said flat to himself from the aforesaid (Transferor). 
We jointly undertake that we or either of us, as is decided amongst ourselves shall furnish necessary
We jointly undertake that we or either of us, as is decided amongst ourselves shall furnish necessary 
information in Form No.37E to the competent author ity under the Income-Tax Act within 30 days of the 
General Body Meeting from me dat e of execution of transfer agreemen t deed at which the transfer will 
be approved for the purpose of registration of the tr ansfer -under Section : 269 AB of the Income-Tax 
Act.  Signature of the Transferee ........... ............... ............... ......   
Signature of the Transferor ........... ............... .....................  
 
Place:-  
Date :-    Note :- This undertaking is not necessary where t he transfer is between two relatives, as defined in 
Section 2(41) of the Income-Tax Act, or if the cons ideration for the transfer is Rs. 75,00,000/- or less  
  84 
 On A Hundred Rupees STAMP PAPER 
APPENDIX 25(2) 
(Under the Bye-laws Nos. 19A (vii) and (iv)
84 
 On A Hundred Rupees STAMP PAPER 
APPENDIX 25(2) 
(Under the Bye-laws Nos. 19A (vii) and (iv) 
Form of Undertaking about the registration of the acquisition of a flat under  section 269 AB of the 
Income-Tax Act.) 
(To be given by a person seeking direct admis sion to the membership of the Society) 
 
I/We, Shri/Srimati/Messers ………. …………….. …………… intend to become a member of the…….. 
…………. Co-operative Housing Society Ltd. ( Propos ed) in respect of the Flat No………… …………… 
in the building of the society, purchased by me/us under the agreement under Section 4 of the 
Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act, 1963 entered into with the Builder, solemnly declare that I shall 
furnish necessary information in Form 37E to the competent authority, under the Income-Tax Act, within 
30 days of the General Body Meeting at which the application for membership will be approved, or 
being registered under Section 269 AB of the Income Tax Act.  
  
Signature of the Applicant  
  Place : Date :-
being registered under Section 269 AB of the Income Tax Act.  
  
Signature of the Applicant  
  Place : Date :-   
Note :- This Undertaking is not necessary where t he transfer is between two relatives, as defined in 
Section 2(41) of the Income-Tax Act, or if the consi deration for the transfer is Rs.75,00,000/- or less.  
   85 
 APPENDIX -26 
(Under the Bye-law No.39) 
A form of intimation by the society to the transfer ee about exercise of rights of membership by him. 
 
To,  
Shri. /Shrimati/ Messers, ……….. ………. …..  
……… ……….. ……… ……… …….. …….  
Upon acceptance of the application for transfer of S hares and interest of Shri/ Shrimati / Messrs ……… 
……… ……….. in the capital/ property of the soci ety, to you and upon acceptance of your application 
for membership of this society simultaneously, in the General Body Meeting of the society, held on 
……….. ……… …….. your name has been entered in the Register of Members in "I" Form and in the
for membership of this society simultaneously, in the General Body Meeting of the society, held on 
……….. ……… …….. your name has been entered in the Register of Members in "I" Form and in the 
List of Members in "J" Form and necessary endorsement  of transfer of shares held by the transferor to 
your name has been made in the letter bearing No………. ……….. Upon receiving this letter, you shall 
be eligible to exercise the rights of membership of this society in accordance with the Act, Rules and the 
Bye-Laws of the Society.  The said share certificate, duly endorsed in  your name, is enclosed herewith.   
.  
Yours faithfully, 
  
Secretary 
The. ….. ……. ……. Co-operative Housing Society Lid. 
 
Place:-  
Date :-   
 
Enclosures :- Share Certificate   86 
 APPENDIX 27 
(Under the Bye-law No. 59) 
Form of application for permissi on to hold more than one flat. 
To,   
The Secretary/Chief Promoter,  
…….. ………. ………. Co-operative Hous ing Society Ltd. (Proposed)
(Under the Bye-law No. 59) 
Form of application for permissi on to hold more than one flat. 
To,   
The Secretary/Chief Promoter,  
…….. ………. ………. Co-operative Hous ing Society Ltd. (Proposed)  
 
1. I am the member/promoter of the………. ……….  Co -operative Housing Society Ltd. (proposed ) at 
………. ………. and hold/ intend to hold flat No . ………. ………. Admeasuring ………. ………. Sq. 
metres, in the building No ………. ………. Build ing/Plot known as ………. ……….………. ……….  
2. I intend to have additional flat in the building of  your society, in my name/ in the name of my wife 
/husband/ son having no independent source of in come/unmarried daughter/ person dependent on me. 
The area of the said flat is ………. ……….square metres / ft.  
 3. As the number of members in the family is  large/ the number of persons dependent on me
The area of the said flat is ………. ……….square metres / ft.  
 3. As the number of members in the family is  large/ the number of persons dependent on me 
and required to stay with me is large/my business activities are such need special arrangement to accommodate visitors coming to me for business (State here any other convincing reason ), the additional fiat is absolutely necessary.   4. I hereby declare that both my flats will be used for my/our bonafide residential purposes and 
would not be sub-let or given on l eave and licence or care-taker basis  or possession thereof would not 
be part with any other manner without  the previous permission of t he committee of the society.  
 5. I request you to please grant necessary permission for holding the additional flat.  
 
 
Yours faithfully 
  
Signature of the Applicant  
, Place:-  
Date :-  
  87 
 APPENDIX 28 
Form for filing Grievance by Member  with the Registering Authority 
 
उपिनबंधक सहकारी संःथा
Yours faithfully 
  
Signature of the Applicant  
, Place:-  
Date :-  
  87 
 APPENDIX 28 
Form for filing Grievance by Member  with the Registering Authority 
 
उपिनबंधक सहकारी संःथा 
यांचेकडे दाखल करावयाचा  अजर् 
 
1. अजर्दार यांचे नाव व पत्ता 
 ................ ...............  
 ................ ...............    अजर्दार 
2. संःथेचे नाव व पत्ता 
 ................ ...............  
 ................ ...............      गैरअजर्दार 
3. ज्यांचेिवरुध तबर आहे त्यांचे नाव व पत्ता 
 ................ ...............  
 ................ ...............     गैरअजर्दार 1, 2, 3 ..  
महोदय 
  ..... ..... .....  सहकारी गृहिनमार्ण संःथा मयार्िदत, िह 
महाराष्टर् सहकारी संःथा अिधिनयम  1960 चे कलमांतगर्त नोंदणीकृत 
सहकारी गृहिनमार्ण संःथा असुन सदर संःथा आपल्या 
कायर्क्षेऽाअतगर्त नोंदणी करण्या आलेली आहे. 
 उपरोक्त संःथेचा भागधाराक  सभासद असुन संःथेकडे वेळोलेळी 
माझ्या िववीध िवषयांसंदभार्त तबार अजर् दाखल केलेले आहेत माऽ 
संःथेने त्याबाबत कोणतीही ठोस कायर्वाही केलेली नाही. तसेच
उपरोक्त संःथेचा भागधाराक  सभासद असुन संःथेकडे वेळोलेळी 
माझ्या िववीध िवषयांसंदभार्त तबार अजर् दाखल केलेले आहेत माऽ 
संःथेने त्याबाबत कोणतीही ठोस कायर्वाही केलेली नाही. तसेच 
केलेल्या कायर्वाहीबाबत  समाधानी नसुन ती अन्याकारक  आहे. 
त्याबाबत मी आपल्याकड े दाद मागत आहे. 88 
 तबार अजार्तील िवषय पुढीलूमाण े 
1- ekx.kh dsysys laLFksps lo Zlk/kkj.k lHksps bfro`Rr] mifo/khph izr bR;knh 
dkxni=kaph ekx.kh dsyh vlrk rh miyC/k d:u fnysyh ukghr- 
2- fcuHkksxoVk “kqYdkph vkdkj.kh “kkl u fu;ekizek.ks dj.;kr ;sr ukgh- 
3- ekfld ns[kHkky “kqYdkP;k Fkdhr jDdesoj mifo/khrhy rjrqnhizek.ks 
O;kt vkdkj.kh dj.;kr ;sr ukgh- 
4- Hkkx nk[kyk ns.;kr ;sr ukgh- 
5- lnfudk fodzhlkBh vFkok dtZ ?ks.kslk Bh uk gjdr izek.ki= ns.;kr ;sr 
ukgh- 
6- laLFksrQsZ ri”khyokj ekx.kh uksVhl vFkok ikorh ns.;kr ;sr ukgh 
 
laLFksdMs ojhy fo’k;kackcr dsysY;k rdzkj vtkZaP;k vuq’kaxkus laLFksus dk;Zokgh 
dsysyh ulY;kus R;kckcr vkiysdMwu iq<hy ;ksX; rh dk;Zokgh gks.;kdfjrk
laLFksdMs ojhy fo’k;kackcr dsysY;k rdzkj vtkZaP;k vuq’kaxkus laLFksus dk;Zokgh 
dsysyh ulY;kus R;kckcr vkiysdMwu iq<hy ;ksX; rh dk;Zokgh gks.;kdfjrk 
laLFksl ;ksX; R;k lqpuk @ funsZ”k @ vkns”k ns.;kr ;kosr gh fouarh- 
 
1- laLFksdMs ekx.kh dsysyh ekfgrh ns.;kckcr laLFksl funsZ”k ns.;kr ;kosr- 
2- fcuHkksxoVk “kqYdkph vkdkj.kh “k klu fu;ekizek.ks vkdkj.kh dj.;kr 
;koh 
3- Fkdckdhckcr mifo/khrhy rjrwnhizek.ks O;kt vkdkj.;kP;k lqpuk ns.;kr 
;kO;kr- 
4- Hkkxnk[kyk o lnfudk fodzhlkBh o dt Z ?ks.kslkBh uk gjdr izek.ki= 
ns.;kckcr lqpuk ns.;kr ;kO;kr- 
5- laLFksrQsZ ri”khyokj ekx.kh uksVhl vFkok ikorh ns.;kl lwpuk ns.;kr 
;kO;kr-  
 
rdzkjnkj ;kauh laLFkk Lrjkoj vtZ nk [ky dj.;klanHkkZr dj ko;kph dk;Zokgh 
1- rdzkj vtZ fofgr ueqU;kr v/;{k @ lfpo ;kaps ukos djkok- 
2- vtkZlkscr vko”;d dkxni=s lknj djkosr 
3- vtZ laLFksdMs lknj dsY; kph iksp ?ks.;kr ;koh 
4- vtkZph iksp ns.;kl udkj fnY;kl vtZ uksan.khd`r Mkds}kjs ikBfo.;kr 
;smu R;kph iksp ?ks.;kr ;koh-
2- vtkZlkscr vko”;d dkxni=s lknj djkosr 
3- vtZ laLFksdMs lknj dsY; kph iksp ?ks.;kr ;koh 
4- vtkZph iksp ns.;kl udkj fnY;kl vtZ uksan.khd`r Mkds}kjs ikBfo.;kr 
;smu R;kph iksp ?ks.;kr ;koh- 
5- laLFksus fnysys mRrj ekU; ulY; kl vFkok laLFkk mRrj nsr ulY;kl 
lacaf/kr  fuca/kdkdMs rdzkj vtZ foghr ueqU;kr lknj djkok- 
 
rdzkjnkj ;kauh fuca/kd dk;kZy ;kdMs rdzkj vtZ nk[ky dj.;kl anHkkZr djko;kph dk;Zokgh 
1- rdzkjnkj ;kauh mifo/kh dz- 175 e/khy rjrqnhuqlkj l{ke  foHkkxkdMs fo’k;kuqlkj 
vtZ djkok- 89 
 2- laLFksdMs lknj dsysyk vtZ rlsp vtkZr uewn fo’k;kckcr mifo/khe/;s fofgr 
dsysY;k dkye;kZnse/;s laLFksus fu.kZ; ?ksr ysyk ulY;kl @ ?ksrysyk fu.kZ; ekU; 
ulY;kl R;kckcr mifo/khrhy rjrwnh fopk jkr ?ksmu iqjkO;klg vtZ lknj djkok- 
3- vtkZe/;s rdzkjnkj laLFksps lHkkl n vlY;kckcr iqjkok lknj djkok- 
4- vtZ T;kauk vxzsf’kr dsysyk vkgs frrD;k izrhlg vtZ lknj djkok- 
5- vtkZe/khy rdzkjhpk fo’k; eks?ke Lo:i kpk ulkok-   usedh rdzkj ekaMrkuk 
R;klanHkkZr iqjkos ekaMkosr
4- vtZ T;kauk vxzsf’kr dsysyk vkgs frrD;k izrhlg vtZ lknj djkok- 
5- vtkZe/khy rdzkjhpk fo’k; eks?ke Lo:i kpk ulkok-   usedh rdzkj ekaMrkuk 
R;klanHkkZr iqjkos ekaMkosr 
6- vtkZrhy fo’k;kckcr fuca/kd dk;kZy;kdMwu  >kysY;k fu.kZ;klaca/kh lek/kku >kys 
ukgh rjp fuca/kdkP;k @ yxrP;k of j’B dk;kZy;kdMs vtZ djkok-  ek= 
rdzkjhlanHkkZr fuca/kdkdMwu mRrj izkIr  >kY;kf”kok; brj= rdzkjh vtZ nk[ky 
d: u;sr-
